We got some great news for Amazon stock investors as the company and Open AAI announced a partnership where OpenAI will purchase up to 38 billion worth of cloud computing services from Amazon's web services segment. So, I'm going to discuss the details of this announcement and what it can mean for Amazon stock investors. I'll look at Amazon's cloud computing segment, the profit margins, and calculate an estimated profit margin from this $ 38 billion deal, and share with you my fair value calculation for Amazon stock, and update my buy or sell rating for Amazon after this announcement. I'll let you know what I feel about it as an Amazon shareholder myself. I want to thank the Mly for sponsoring this video. Visit full.com/parkev for the 10 best stocks to buy now. All right. So, Amazon's stock price was up roughly 5% following this announcement where the company announced a deal worth up to $ 38 billion with OpenAI for the Chat GPT developer to access hundreds of thousands of Nvidia's AI chips through its cloud computing infrastructure. Under the partnership, Open AAI will run its AI workloads on Nvidia's GPUs housed within Amazon's AI servers. The company said OpenAI would immediately start using AI infrastructure provided by Amazon's cloud segment, scaling to the full computing capacity outlined in the deal before the end of 2026. So this will be an incremental ramp of purchases from Open AAI starting almost immediately. They will start purchasing cloud computing services and ramp it up to the full scale under this agreement by the end of 2026. As you saw, this is for cloud computing using Nvidia's GPUs. Amazon's capital infrastructure spending goes primarily to build these data centers optimized for artificial intelligence. And the primary component in these data centers are Nvidia's GPUs. And of course, this news is like just great news for me because I own Amazon stock which is up 5%. I also own Nvidia stock which will benefit from this arrangement as well. So this is great news for me personally as well as my viewers. Nvidia and Amazon I've been talking about and I've ranked as two of the best stocks to buy this year and I've been repeating that recommendation all year long. Nvidia shares are soaring. And finally, in recent days, Amazon stock is starting to catch a rally, gaining momentum after company reported quarterly financial results that surprised investors to the upside. And now investors are getting more excited about Amazon stock. I've been excited about Amazon stock for a while now, and I'm glad to have secured some shares for my portfolio earlier this year. So now let's do some back of the envelope math here in estimating what the profitability will be for this arrangement. So you noticed the deal was worth $38 billion. Let's go back and confirm that amount. A $ 38 billion deal starting immediately. So the purchases will begin immediately. And to put that into context, Amazon's web services segment in the most recently completed quarter generated $33 billion in sales. So this is a business segment that is now on an annualized run rate closer to $130 billion. So the $ 38 billion arrangement is likely for multiple years. So if you estimate that it's it's for five years, you can estimate $7 billion annually over five years to reach approximately the $ 38 billion figure they highlighted in this arrangement. So it's a meaningful amount even for Amazon Web Services. Uh if you figure $7 billion out of $120 billion, it's about 5% incremental sales for this multi-billion dollar segment. But one thing to note here, this is Amazon's most lucrative segment of its overall business. The highest profit margins, operating profit margins of 35% in the most recent trailing 12-month period was 36%. So, if you estimate a 35% operating margin on a $ 38 billion deal, you're looking at operating income here of about $12 billion on this arrangement. So, a meaningful amount of profit for Amazon over these next several years included in the arrangement. And of course, there if they like the terms, if they like the arrangement, they can extend for further. That's the big takeaway here also is this is the first deal between OpenAI and Amazon. And so this could be the start of a relationship where it extends beyond this initial agreement because chat GPT Open AI is going to need computing power and Amazon is one of the largest providers of this kind of computing capacity. So this is an opening agreement. I wouldn't be surprised if this agreement expands because there's a limited amount of computing capacity available and if OpenAI and Chat GPT have similar growth ambitions as they've had over the previous few years, they're going to need all of the capacity they can access. Amazon having some of the biggest capacity. It's inevitable that these two would have met for an arrangement and it's inevitable that they will need to work together if Chachi PT continues growing at the pace it's been growing. So now that the share price is rallying again, I wanted to revisit my discounted cash flow valuation for Amazon. The current market price after increasing by 5% today is up to $256. The intrinsic value per share is $295. And you can see here my free cash flow forecast for Amazon over these next few years uh for 2026, $74 billion free cash flow estimated. Starting 2027, $109 billion of free cash flow estimated for Amazon. Now, what I'm likely to do in the coming days as a result of this arrangement, you saw me calculate the estimated profitability from this arrangement incrementally for Amazon on an annualized basis. So, I'm likely to update my free cash flow forecast starting in 2027 because remember they said that the deal will reach its full capacity in 20 by the end of 2026. So this year and next they will be making purchases. It will likely add to Amazon's free cash flow, but that amount is uncertain. I can't estimate that because they said it wasn't going to be at the full scale. I can more accurately estimate 2027 free cash flow and the impact of this deal on 2027's free cash flow because I can put that figure, spread it out over several years and create an annualized estimate of how much free cash flow I expect will be added to Amazon's total free cash flow over the next few years. And my estimation initially before I go into the details here is that I will be adding roughly $7 billion in free cash flow from 2027 to about 2030 for Amazon. So you can look at these figures here. The $19 billion estimate for 2027 will likely go up to 116 billion. The 2028 figure will likely go up to 131 billion, etc. and onward. And that's likely to create an upward impact on the intrinsic value calculation. As it is right now, I calculate Amazon's intrinsic value at $295 per share. The current market price is $256. So, it's still undervalued even before I incorporate the impacts of this deal into the company's free cash flow estimates for the next uh several years starting in 2027. So, great news to be sure for Amazon stock investors. I will reiterate the fact that I believe this is one of the best stocks you can buy right now. I own Amazon stock myself and I'm interested in adding more shares to my existing position. Hey, if you value my process for researching stocks, I think you'll appreciate access to my spreadsheet containing my discounted cash flow valuations which calculate a fair value for over 200 companies. It answers the question, what's a good price to pay for a certain stock? You can get access by joining our channel at the investor tier or above.
