Palanteer reported absolutely spectacular quarterly financial results and the stock price is down 2.7% following that earnings announcement. So I know many of you are left wondering how could a stock perform the way Palanteer performed reporting revenue growth over 60% operating profit margin cash flow all better than expected raising the guidance for the full year 2025 billions of dollars in new deals signed and yet the stock price is down now it's down over 2.3% following the announcement so I'll discuss why this is the case and why this is what I warned Palunteer stock investors about coming into this earnings result. Remember I did a earnings preview video where I highlighted that Palunteer stock price was priced nearly to perfection and if the company perfor reported anything less than absolutely spectacular results that there was huge downside possible for Palanteer shares and you're seeing some of the evidence of that what I said in the earnings preview. Regardless, I'll review these results and provide more detail on why the stock price is falling. I'll also share with you my proprietary discounted cash flow valuation, which calculates a fair value for Palunteer stock and update my buy or sell rating on this excellent growth stock. >> I want to thank the Mly Fool for sponsoring this video. Visit f.com/parkev for the 10 best stocks to buy now. Palanteer second quarter US revenue grew 77% but more importantly for me US commercial revenue grew 121% year-over-year and 29% from the previous quarter. I've been talking about for a few years now how this is Palunteer's biggest opportunity is in enterprise business. We all know how great Palunteer is with governments and government institutions. Governments have deep pockets and can spend and can afford Palanteer services. Palunteer is undoubtedly the bestin-class in this category. But what Palanteer struggles with is offering this service at a low enough price to attract a lot more customers. It has relatively few customers, but each customer pays Palunteer a lot of money. And so if Palunteer can gain traction among US enterprises, that's a broader opportunity, a larger opportunity because there are millions of businesses worldwide whereas there is relatively fewer government institutions. And you've seen Palunteer achieve great success in unlocking this opportunity and yet another quarter of excellent performance here with US commercial revenue growing 121%. Of course, what's missing from its third quarter 2025 highlights is commercial revenue from outside the United States or government revenue from outside the United States. And you've heard me talk about this before. When a management team doesn't like a certain figure or doesn't like what it shows, it will bury that figure in like page 17 of a financial statement or of a press release. And so you don't see these things that show Palunteer in a less than flattering light. And Palanteer is not the only one that does this. I recently did a video about United Health and why its management team put certain figures way down below. It was figures that they didn't really want you to pay attention to and they wanted you to look deeper to find. I wouldn't be surprised if that's the similar thinking here with Palanteer. Overall revenue increased by 63% year-over-year and 18% from the previous quarter to 1.18 billion. They closed a record setting $2.8 billion of total contract value which was up 151% year-over-year. US commercial remaining deal value of 3.6 billion was up 199%. The company is signing new contracts at an accelerating rate. And the reason this is important is because this eventually will turn into revenue. So investors are looking at this as a sign of what future revenue growth will look like. And Palanteer keeps setting new records in these new customer signings and order value. Palanteer's profitability and cash flow has also been impressive. Not only are they growing revenue, but they're growing revenue very profitably. Its income from operations came in at 393 million which represented a 33% operating profit margin that's been moving higher at a rapid rate. As I mentioned, Palanteer services its business overall is just an absolutely premium business. And the only reason why I don't own Palunteer stock myself is because the stock is so expensive. And I'll talk a little bit more about that later in the video. Other than the valuation, nearly everything about Palunteer's business is attractive for long-term investors. The cash flow from operations, 508 million, represented a 43% margin. This is among the best of any of the 300 companies I'm following. The best of the best are around 60% and Palanteer at 43% while they're still growing revenue by 63% is truly impressive. Most of the companies that have very high operating profit margins are not growing revenue by 63%. They're more mature companies like Visa and Mastercard and Nvidia is one of the newer ones that's up here with great cash flow from operations to sales ratios and also great revenue growth. But those kinds of companies are relatively few and far between. Palanteer also has one of the best balance sheets of any company with $6.4 4 billion in cash and equivalence and zero debt. Now, this cash balance is growing so large that a lot of investors are complaining about this. They want Palunteer to do something with this money. Either do a share buyback or make an acquisition or offer customers maybe better terms in order to attract new deals. Right? I mentioned some of their customers might not be able to afford their services. Palunteer can get creative and say, "Look, we're so confident in the value we will add to your business that we'll provide our service for 12 months for free and if you don't see the value in that, then you don't have to pay us back. But if you see the value in that, then you pay us back 12 months later." or telling them that no, regardless of how you feel about the value, you still have to pay us back, but we'll give you 12 months to pay us back or we'll give you 24 months to pay us back. Palanteer can afford to get creative like that because they have $6 billion over $6 billion on the balance sheet and right now they're putting it in US treasuries or government bonds or money market accounts which is probably giving them around 4% yield. I'm relatively confident that they can earn a better yield by getting creative with this capital and offering some better terms to some of their customers or potential customers. And I wouldn't be surprised if they're already doing that because of the growth they're seeing in their US commercial business. I wouldn't be surprised if they're already using the balance sheet in order to attract more customers. Now, I mentioned I would talk about valuation. And look at this here. Palanteer is trading at a forward PE of 256. By the way, I'm getting this chart from fiscal.ai. There's a link in the description if you're interested in these kinds of charts. Palanteer's forward PE of 256 is the most expensive it's been going all the way back to 2023 when the company uh was just getting underway of reporting consistent profitability. At that moment, it was trading at a forward PE of around 30 to 35. It's now trading at a forward PE of 256. Of course, you're getting a better business than you were getting back then, but the valuation is nearly 10 times the average stock in the S&P 500. Furthermore, when I look at valuation using my proprietary discounted cash flow model, it's also looking overvalued. The stock price at $27 is trading near the 52- week high and it's well above the $50 intrinsic value per share I calculated. So all of these valuation concerns are the reason why the stock price is down 1.5% in the aftermarket hours following this earnings release which was absolutely spectacular. I mean, I can't imagine how many times it's hasn't been very many times I've seen an earnings release where a company reported 63% year-over-year growth in revenue, reported no contract signings, which are up 151%. Uh, remaining deal value up 199% with profits and profit margins and cash flow improving. raising the guidance for the rest of the year on revenue, on cash flow, on operating income, raising the guidance across the board. And yet the stock price falling by 1.8%. That's almost unheard of. But that just goes to show how expensive the valuation had gotten coming into the earnings release. And that just goes to show, remember I did that earnings preview where I said I wouldn't be buying Palunteer stock ahead of earnings. And I warned everyone I wouldn't be buying Palunteer stock ahead of earnings. There is very limited upside, but there is huge downside. The stock could have crashed by 20, 30, or 40%. If any of those numbers weren't as spectacular as they were, imagine if they reported instead of 63% revenue growth, if it was 40% growth, right? That would still be a great number on the top line, but imagine what would happen to the stock price. Or imagine they reported some factor causing profitability to fall below what they were forecasting or some difficulty in signing new contract or something with the government shutdown and government's cutting spending hurting Palanteer's contract revenue during the quarter, right? a number of things, any one of those things, if they were to come to fruition during the quarter, and this stock price could be trading below 150 following the earnings release very easily. But thankfully for investors, the company reported absolutely spectacular results and the stock price is declining anyway. This is the danger you encounter when you're investing in stocks that are already trading at nosebleleed valuations. they're already incorporating all of these excellent results for many many quarters ahead into the future. And so when you get a number like you did today, it fails to create upside for the stock. And that's what I've been talking about here with Palunteer at these super expensive valuations that there's limited upside from here while the downside is huge. So, I've had Palunteer stock rated as a hold and following these earnings results, I will be reiterating that hold rating. It's a great company delivering excellent performance with excellent prospects for several quarters, perhaps even several years into the future, but the valuation I feel already incorporates all of those excellent prospects looking ahead several years. And so, I don't see very much upside in buying Palunteer stock today. Hey, thanks for watching. I truly respect every viewer who takes the time to seek qualified financial analysis. Unfortunately, there are a lot of unqualified voices online giving unsubstantiated stock advice. My goal is to provide research that's grounded in data and professional training, not just what's popular. For those new here, I hold a master's degree in financial economics. I'm a CFA charter holder, an author, and a professor of finance and economics. I've spent nearly a decade researching stocks professionally, and I'm here to help you make informed investing decisions. If you found value in this analysis, make sure to subscribe and consider joining the channel as a member for early access and in-depth membersonly content.