Title: The Term Structure of U.S. Interest Rates and Treasury Risk
URL: https://www.newyorkfed.org/medialibrary/media/research/staff_reports/sr1091.pdf
Citation: New York Fed Staff Report 1091 (2025)
Extracted: 2025-12-08T04:57:51.640291 UTC
International Banking and  
Nonbank Financial Intermediation:  
Global Liquidity, Regulation, and 
Implications  
 
Claudia M. Buch  | Linda S. Goldberg  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 NO. 10 91  
M ARCH  2 024 

International Banking and Non bank Financial Intermediation:   
Global Liquidity, Regulation, and Implications  
Claudia M. Buch and Linda S. Goldberg  
Federal Reserve Bank of New York Staff Reports , no. 1091  
March 2024  
https://doi.org/10.59576/sr. 1091  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abstract  
Global liquidity flows are largely channeled through banks and nonbank financial institutions.  The 
common drivers of global liquidity flows include monetary policy in advanced economies and risk 
conditions. At the same time, the sensitivities of liquidity flows to changes  in these drivers differ across 
institutions and have been evolving over time. Microprudential regulation of banks plays a role, 
influencing leverage and capitalization, changing sensitivities to  shocks , and also driving risk migration 
from bank s to nonbank finan cial institutions. Risk  sensitivities and flightiness of global liquidity are now 
strongest in more leveraged nonbank  financial  institutions, raising challenges in stress episodes. Current 
policy initiatives target  linkages across different types of financial institutions and associated risks. 
Meanwhile, significant gaps remain. This paper concludes by discussing policy options for addressing 
systemic risk in banks and nonbanks.  
 
JEL classification:  F3, G21, G23, G28  
Key words : international bank, nonbank financial institution, global liquidity, regulation, prudential 
policy  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
_________________  
 
Goldberg: Federal Reserve Bank of New York (email: linda.goldberg @ny.frb.org). Buch : European 
Central Bank (email : claudia. buch@ecb.europa.eu ). Buch  was employed by the Deutsche Bundesbank 
when she contributed to this paper . The authors thank  Allen Berger,  Valentina Bruno, Tobias Etzel, 
Leonardo Gambacorta, Phil Molyneux, Friederike Niepmann,  Matthias Weis , and John Wilson for their 
most helpful input and feedback on an earlier version of this text.  
 
This paper presents preliminary findings and is being distributed to economists and other interested 
readers solely to stimulate discussion and elicit comments. The views expressed in this paper are those of 
the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the  position of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York , the 
Federal Reserve System , or the European Central Bank . Any errors or omissions are the responsibility of 
the author(s).  
To view the authors’ disclosure statements, visit 
https://www.newyorkfed.org/research/sta ff_reports/sr 1091 .html.  

1 Motivation
Global financial markets have grown over the past decades. In the early 2000s, global financial
assets stood at about 400% of world GDP and the financial sector has expanded to more than
600% of global GDP since then (Financial Stability Board 2022c.) Both bank and non-bank
financial flows have increased rapidly over the past decades. Non-bank financial intermediation
(NBFI) has gained ground in relative terms since the global financial crisis in 2008, not least
because of the tighter regulation of banking activities. Today, non-bank financial intermediaries
hold about 50% of global financial assets, increasing from 42% in 2008 (Financial Stability Board
2022c).
This chapter considers consequences of these changes in the structure of finance for global
liquidity flows and for the associated policy agenda around banks and non-bank financial interme-
diaries. This expansion of finance certainly has positive implications for the real economy. Global
financial flows have expanded in parallel to the globalization of the real economy, thus facilitating
the expansion of global value chains and insuring against associated risks. But financial markets
are also prone to exuberance and fragility with regard to adverse shocks. Such fragilities can have
severe negative implications for the real economy. Reversals of capital flows and high volatility
can adversely affect investment and thus growth, as evidenced by a long history of financial crises
in advanced and emerging market economies. Crisis identification has thus received considerable
analytical attention, as surveyed by Sufi and Taylor (2021), as have the broad social and political
ramifications that inevitably follow, often with policy regime shifts.
The importance of having stronger prudential regulation and supervision of banks was among
the many lessons of the global financial crisis of 2007 to 2008. Policymakers focused on tightening
prudential regulation of banks, enhancing supervision, and closing gaps in the regulatory frame-
work. Special attention has been paid to systemic risk in the banking sector: Banks that are
too large and too connected to fail can take on excessive risks and impose negative externalities
on the financial system. Similarly, exposure of many smaller financial institutions to the same
macroeconomic risk factor can lead to systemic risk: there can be “too many” institutions that
may fail if macroeconomic conditions take a negative turn, thus forcing authorities to intervene
to support these institutions.
Yet, the types of institutions engaging in international and domestic financial markets are
much broader than banks. Nonbank financial institutions (NBFIs) have increased in importance
and represent many distinct business models under sometimes distinct supervisory and regulatory
frameworks. In addition to their domestic presence, these diverse institutions play significant
and sometimes dominant roles in global liquidity flows, as discussed in this chapter. Types of
institutions face distinct balance sheet constraints and funding needs, and each stress episode
2

highlights new forms of inter-connectedness, including with banks.
Accordingly, the post global financial crisis (GFC) reforms have not just focused on banks and
are far from being complete. The NBFI reform agenda has focused on mitigating spillovers be-
tween banks and the NBFI sector, and on distinguishing entity- versus activity-based approaches
to regulation. The regulatory reforms agenda of the past 15 years has aimed to address systemic
risks while continued monitoring of reform effects and of newly emerging risks remain priorities.
The debates on implications of the changing patterns of global finance ares characterized by
two dichotomies. The first dichotomy is the distinction made between banks and non-banks. The
channels through which systemic risk for the financial system can arise are very similar for banks
and non-banks. Yet, regulations of banks and non-banks are often discussed separately, thus
potentially overlooking important channels of interaction between bank and non-bank financial
flows. As we discuss, recent evidence shows that tighter regulation of banks affects the market
shares of non-banks, and shows that risks potentially migrate to other parts of the financial
system (see Irani, Iyer, Meisenzahl, and Peydr´ o 2021, Financial Stability Board 2021a, Kim,
Pence, Stanton, Walden, and Wallace 2022, Claessens, Cornelli, Gambacorta, Manaresi, and
Shiina 2023, and Goldberg 2023). Moreover, different sectors of the financial system are closely
related through balance sheet and contractual linkages as well as through exposure to similar
funding and investment markets. Hence, we discuss the importance of a more a systemic approach
that considers these linkages.
The second dichotomy that characterizes many debates is that between the micro- and the
macro-level insights that inform policy approaches to financial institution activities. Empirical
research on the micro-level or on bank-specific effects of prudential regulation has flourished
over the past decades. This body of analytics grew in parallel to methodological advances in
empirical and macroeconomic modelling of bank activities. Increasingly, granular data on NBFIs
is also available and used for policy insights. Meanwhile, macroeconomic and global factors,
along with systemic considerations, are increasingly understood. Some considerations are the
consequences of policies for domestic and international funding flows. However, bringing together
the micro and the macro side of domestic and global liquidity flows, also in the context of
understanding monetary policy transmission and financial stability challenges, remains difficult.
Hence, this chapter highlights lessons from analyses using country-level series, as well as the rich
evidence using bank- or loan- level data as conducted by researchers in the International Banking
Research Network (IBRN) to analyse the implications of macroeconomic shocks and implications
of prudential regulation.
This chapter is structured to overview the research and policy agenda related to bank and non-
bank financial intermediation in the international flows context. Section 2 starts with the topic of
the role of banks and non-banks in global liquidity, providing insights on the drivers of flows and
3

magnitudes of responsiveness over time. Section 3 summarizes the regulatory approach taken with
regard to bank and non-bank financial intermediation since the global financial crisis. Section 4
discusses interlinkages between banks and non-banks using the examples of recent stress episodes
on financial markets and describes current policy initiatives addressing associated risks. Section
5 concludes. We emphasize that further research and policy work on linkages between bank- and
non-bank financial flows can be very fruitful. Methodologies that have been applied to analyse
the international activities of banks, their response to macroeconomic shocks, and the impact of
prudential regulation can be a useful template to analyse non-bank financial flows. Still, when
comparing banks and non-banks, the availability of banking data has improved significantly over
the past decades, while the availability and quality of data on non-banks certainly lags behind.
We also emphasize that regulating financial activities, addressing risks to financial stability, and
acknowledging linkages of financial institutions remains a priority.
2 Global Liquidity: Bank and Non-Bank Financial Flows
Credit provision is a key function of many financial intermediaries, with some having a significant
international focus. The Committee on the Global Financial System defines the concept of global
liquidity as corresponding to the volumes of financial flows - largely intermediated through global
banks and non-bank financial institutions – that can be reallocated at relatively high frequencies,
such as intra-day or intra-month (CGFS 2011).1Such international flows through these institu-
tions respond to both global drivers and to the more idiosyncratic or regional conditions in the
destination countries that receive associated funding. Global factors behind these flows include
the monetary policy of some advanced economies, particularly the United States, global risk sen-
timent and uncertainty, and global growth conditions. Standard local drivers include country
risk, political, and macroeconomic indicators.
A basic schematic from Goldberg (2023), provided as Figure 1, shows the channels through
which banks and NBFIs engage in global liquidity flows. This schematic also sets the stage for
characterizing the changes over time in international banking flows and issuance of international
debt securities. Global liquidity flows to borrowers in Country A can be intermediated through
both bank and non-bank financial institutions located outside of its borders. Global banks engage
in three categories of cross-border lending as shown by the arrowed lines in the left side of Figure 1.
Inter-bank lending flows from foreign banks are transactions with the unrelated domestic banks,
for example in the form of loans. The intra-bank lending flows are those with counterparties
as the global bank’s branches and subsidiaries that are located in Country A. Also described
1This section closely follows Linda S. Goldberg’s International Monetary Fund, 23rd Annual Mundell Fleming
Lecture and the associated published article Goldberg (2023).
4

Figure 1: Bank and Non-bank Global Liquidity Channels
Source: Goldberg (2023).
as inter-office lending or internal capital market flows, these flows arise as global banks manage
liquidity across the parts of their organizations located around the world. Along with loans to
non-bank borrowers, these flows are subsumed within the broad category of cross-border bank
loans ( XBL ) . The non-bank borrower group consists of non-bank financial firms, corporations
and governments. Those that are issuers in the syndicated cross-border loan markets tend to be
large non-financial corporations, exporting and importing firms, and leveraged non-bank financial
firms.
Foreign non-bank financial institutions (NBFI) also provide cross-border funding to domestic
banks and to non-bank borrowers within Country A, as shown by the arrowed lines on the right
side of Figure 1. Flows from non-bank financial institutions are sometimes described as market-
based finance, and can be categorized as the purchases of the international debt securities (IDS)
issued by banks or by non-banks. The NBFI entities that are purchasers of such securities tend
to be pension funds, insurance companies, money market funds, and hedge funds.
A historical perspective on the evolution of global liquidity is gained when the period from
the early 1980s through 2020 is divided into three subperiods subsumed by Figure 1 (Goldberg
(2023)). The early 1980s through the early 1990s corresponds to when banks were the dominant
source of funds in the supply of global liquidity. The relevant arrows are concentrated on the left
side of Figure 1. The next period, starting in the mid-1990s, is characterized by the expanded roles
of global banks within host countries, in particular following financial liberalizations in countries
that had experienced banking and or currency crises. Global banking expanded in those foreign
5

locations by establishing hosted branches and subsidiaries. Direct lending from these affiliated
banks within the host country to other non-bank customers increased, as did their provision
of other banking services. Supporting local claims by the affiliated banks, parent global banks
provided cross-border intra-bank funding flows to affiliates and liquidity management across the
global banks gained importance.
The third period follows the GFC, when weaknesses in banking institutions and related exter-
nalities were broadly displayed. Post-GFC efforts concentrated on international and systemically
important banks, with the attention of regulators and supervisors focused on risk frameworks
and risk absorbing capacities within the banking organizations. Substantial changes occurred in
the risk-absorbing capacity of banks as reflected in generally higher levels of bank capitalization,
reduced leverage, and improved liquidity management frameworks. Spurred also by technological
developments, the post-GFC period saw a rapid expansion of global liquidity directly flowing to
non-bank borrowers, an increasing role for NBFIs as global liquidity providers, and interconnect-
edness with banks.
The scope of the dramatic changes in the composition of players and flows is illustrated in
Figure 2 using summed flows across countries using BIS data series and from the borrowing
country’s perspective. The types of borrowers are banks (middle panels) and non-banks (right
panels). This exhibit shows that banks both in advanced economies (upper row of graphics) and
in emerging markets (lower row of graphics) have had relatively steady outstanding volumes of
total global funding in recent years.
Cross-border loans (represented in red) are the largest form of international funding for banks.
About two-thirds of this bank-to-bank funding is associated with internal capital market transfers
that are part of the liquidity management within global banks; the other one third represents the
more typical interbank positions, with flows that are often short maturity and relatively volatile.
The post-GFC period is characterized by some bank funding also in the form of international debt
securities issuance. The most dramatic shifts in the composition of global liquidity are for non-
bank borrowers within both advanced and emerging market economies. The relative size of the
blue areas in the right panels of Figure 2 shows the now dominant positions in the total volumes of
outstanding positions. Indeed, while banks have experienced moderate shifts in funding sources,
nonbanks have tilted sharply toward market-based finance.
2.1 Risk Sensitivity of Global Liquidity Subcomponents
Policy frameworks covering prudential instruments and supervisory regimes benefit from a keen
understanding of the interlinkages between institutions and their sensitivities to different shocks.
Before turning to a detailed discussion of policy, this subsection presents specific evidence of
sensitivities of global liquidity to risk sentiment, risk off shocks, and monetary policy, and the role
6

Advanced Economies
Emerging Markets and Developing Economies
Figure 2: Volumes of External Debt Flows – Amount Outstanding in Trillions of USD
Source: Avdjiev, Gambacorta, Goldberg, and Schiaffi (2023) using BIS Locational Banking Statis-
tics.
7

of institution-specific characteristics in influencing related outcomes. The subsequent subsection
considers evidence on sensitivity to the policy toolkit. Advances in data availability and analytical
studies have been critically important for generating insights, even as substantial gaps remain.
Rey 2015 elevated the importance of a focus on the global factor in international flows. Yet,
it also is evident that the sensitivities to risk and foreign monetary policy of different types
of flows vis-a-vis specific borrower types have changed dramatically. Looking across a large
sample of both advanced and emerging market economies using data through 2019, Avdjiev,
Gambacorta, Goldberg, and Schiaffi (2020) estimate the respective effects for cross-border loans
and market-based finance, also separating borrowers according to institutional type (total, banks,
non-banks). Pre-GFC, interbank lending sensitivity was more volatile than cross border lending
to nonbank borrowers. Post-GFC cross-border lending sensitivity to risk sentiment declined for all
borrower types. Bank lending no longer contracts sharply on average as risk sentiment worsens.
Having better capitalized banks in global liquidity flows reduced shock sensitivity. Moreover, part
of the explanation may reside with the characteristics of borrowers. Risk migration occurred,
with funding flows from global banks less likely to be to riskier categories of borrowers. Risk
migration occurred on multiple levels, as the composition of lending changed to represent a larger
share of interbank lending to affiliated branches and subsidiaries, with a smaller footprint of the
interbank market in bank funding . Moreover, stronger capitalization and higher liquidity buffers
in banks are associated with more stable international liquidity provision in the form of cross-
border lending. The amplitude of risk transmission across borders is magnified through lower
capitalized banks, and diminished when these banks lose market share. In the aftermath of the
GFC, lower capitalized banks lost market share in providing global liquidity.
New data makes it feasible to discuss the balance sheet features of both banks and NBFIs that
influence sensitivities. For NBFIs, newly available data from the Financial Stability Board at the
country-year level inform the leverage and liquidity transformation capacity of the types of NBFIs
involved in country- and time-specific global liquidity flows. Avdjiev, Gambacorta, Goldberg,
and Schiaffi (2023) establish that leverage - whether found in banks or in aggregate measures
associated with NBFIs - serves as an amplifier of risk shocks for both types of institutions.
Still, the types of NBFIs involved in flows differ substantially across countries and over time.
Accordingly, this reduces the generality of some results, and the sensitivity of funding flows to
finance banks’ issuance of international debt securities sometimes is not precisely estimated over
time or across countries. Providers have distinct vulnerabilities and balance-sheet constraints
that continue to be insufficiently understood.
8

2.2 Prudential Spillovers Using Bank-Specific Data
More granular data analytics reinforce how prudential policy works in domestic markets and spills
over across borders into global liquidity. Researchers working with either bank-specific, credit
registry, or other transaction-type databases show drivers of prudential spillovers across borders,
and interactions between prudential policies and monetary policy. Examples include the results
of initiatives of the International Banking Research Network (IBRN), a network of researchers
across about 30 central banks and international organizations. The core objectives of the IBRN
are to conduct rigid policy relevant experiments based on micro-level banking data, to replicate
and customize analyses and experiment design across countries, to draw broader lessons from
these studies in overview papers and meta analyses.
In one IBRN initiative summarized in Buch and Goldberg (2017) 15 country teams exam-
ined the domestic effects and international spillovers of prudential instruments using confidential
micro-banking data. Teams seeking evidence for international policy spillovers considered mul-
tiple channels through banks. Inward transmission addresses how foreign regulations affect the
domestic activities of domestic banks or foreign affiliates (bank branches or subsidiaries) located
in the host country. Outward transmission to foreign economies addresses the effects of foreign
policies on the foreign activities of a reporting country’s global banks. All country teams imple-
mented the same baseline regression models for analyzing inward or outward transmission. In
addition, country teams addressed issues specific to their banking markets or banks’ business mod-
els. In some cases, teams differentiated the adjustment of lending by their global banks’ branches
(which are subject to the capital requirements of their parents) versus subsidiaries (which are, in
addition, subject to regulations in the host country).
Some countries observe that specific prudential instruments spill over internationally and
through banks via lending growth. Heterogeneity in spillovers through lending across countries,
time, and prudential instruments is common. This heterogeneity is at the bank level, where the
effects of prudential instruments on lending differ with the ex ante balance-sheet characteristics
and business models of the banks participating in international lending. For example, foreign
affiliates with higher shares of illiquid assets and with stronger reliance on deposit funding tend
to have loan growth that responds more to loan-to-value ratio limits and sector-specific capital
buffer changes in the foreign parent’s location. Degrees of internal liquidity management via
internal capital markets can significantly differentiate how general capital requirements imposed
in the parent’s country spill over into lending by affiliated banks in the host market. These same
characteristics do not appear to be as important for the inward transmission of foreign policies
into the domestic lending of global banks.
The economic magnitudes of international spillovers of changes in prudential policy instru-
9

ments through the intensive margins of adjustment were not large on average. Yet the extensive
margin of adjustment also kicked in. Banks with higher initial capital were poised to increase
lending internationally, and sometimes pivoting from domestic loan growth, when foreign coun-
tries tightened their capital requirements. For example, Dutch banks increased lending in coun-
tries that tightened prudential regulation and decreased lending when regulation is relaxed, but
to different degrees. The effects were more significant in larger banks, in lending to advanced
economies, and in the post-crisis period. Changes in some prudential instruments may thus spur
the repositioning of market share across banks and foreign countries.
Studies using data from Germany and from the U.S. analyzed both inward and outward
transmission of prudential policies through loan growth of global banks, and contrast inward
transmission through domestic global banks and hosted foreign affiliates (Berrospide, Correa,
Goldberg, and Niepmann, 2016; Ohls, Pramor, and Tonzer, 2016). When foreign capital require-
ments tightened,global banks from both countries expanded loan growth at home. German global
banks slso tended to contract loan growth externally.
The outward transmission channel analyzed in studies using regulatory data for, respectively,
Canada, France, Italy, and the Netherlands confirm positive prudential spillover effects: as do-
mestic prudential instruments tightened, foreign lending growth tended to increase (Bussi` ere,
Schmidt, and Vinas, 2016; Caccavaio, Carpinelli, and Marinelli, 2018; Damar and Mordel, 2016;
Frost, de Haan, and Van Horen, 2017). In the case of Italy, inward transmission through hosted
branches was observed specifically in response to changes in local reserve requirements and sector-
specific capital buffers. United Kingdom evidence shows the specific ipacts of instruments may
mainly appear in even more granular and sectorally disaggregated data (Hills, Reinhardt, Sower-
butts, and Wieladek, 2018). For example, tighter LTV ratios in the home market of parent
banks outside the U.K. increased lending to private non-financials and household borrowers in
the U.K. However, when the home country tightened foreign reserve requirements, lending de-
creased. In Korea, inward spillover effects were relatively weak, explained by low levels of foreign
bank activity in the retail market and by regulations of cross-border capital flows (Park and Lee,
2018).The issue of intensity of bilateral linkages was an important factor in the economic effects
of spillovers for Mexico. The main banks from the U.S. and Canada were ethose with more
significant spillovers of prudential policies into domestic retail lending (Levin-Konigsberg, Lopez,
Lopez-Gallo, and Mart´ ınez-Jaramillo, 2018). In Turkey, prudential spillovers occurred both on
lending and borrowing (Baskaya, Binici, and Kenc, 2018), with tightening abroad in loan-to-value
limits leading to higher cross-border borrowing by banks in Turkey.
This evidence shows the importance of heterogeneity and of the specific frictions in each
country. There was no one-size-fits-all channel or even direction of transmission that domi-
nated spillovers of changes across prudential policy instruments. Balance-sheet characteristics
10

and business models of banks matter. Almost all prudential instruments have been associated
with positive and negative spillovers, within and across transmission channels.
Prudential policies also interact with monetary policy in spillovers (Bussi` ere, Cao, de Haan,
Hills, Lloyd, Meunier, Pedrono, Reinhardt, Sinha, Sowerbutts, and Styrin, 2021). Stress tests
impacted the cross-border transmission of monetary policy via the U.S. banking sector and U.S.
banks’ new loan originations (Niepmann, Schmidt-Eisenlohr, and Liu, 2021). The results are
consistent with a more accommodative U.S. monetary policy stance during the zero-lower-bound
period leading to more bank lending to emerging market economies. A truly novel finding is
that the magnitude of this international spillover effect depends on how banks fared in the Fed-
eral Reserve’s annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR). Only banks that
comfortably passed the CCAR stress tests issued more loans to borrowers in emerging market
economies. Banks also shifted their lending to safer borrowers within emerging markets in re-
sponse to monetary easing, leaving the risk of their overall loan books unchanged. This type of
evidence implies banks confront different constraints when hit by shocks and differentiate across
borrowers.
Bush, G´ omez, Jara, Moreno, Styrin, and Ushakova (2020) focus on three EMEs – Chile,
Mexico, and Russia – to measure how macroprudential policy in these countries interacts with
monetary shocks in core countries. The overall results were mixed, with some evidence that the
strength of international monetary policy transmission into loans by foreign banks depends on
the stance of the domestic macroprudential policy. A similar exercise using data for Norway
and Sweden, by Cao, Dinger, Grodecka-Messi, Juelsrud, and Zhang (2021), found that domestic
macroprudential policy helped mitigate the effects of foreign monetary surprises. Important
differences reflect the structure of the banking sectors in the two countries. In Sweden, weak
evidence of an international bank lending channel perhaps reflected foreign exchange mismatches,
with a significant role for domestic macroprudential policies in shielding the economy against
decreases in bank loan supply associated with foreign monetary surprises. In Norway, domestic
monetary policy and accounting for foreign exchange differentials seem to be more important for
understanding banks’ lending.
Another study, using data from Ireland and the Netherlands, found that restrictive euro-area
monetary policy shocks reduced the growth of mortgage lending (Everett, de Haan, Jansen, Mc-
Quade, and Samarina, 2020). Stricter domestic prudential regulation mitigated this effect in
Ireland, but not so in the Netherlands. Macroprudential policies in 12 Asia-Pacific economies,
investigated by Bruno, Shim, and Shin (2017), were particularly effective when complementing
monetary policy by reinforcing monetary tightening. ?evaluate the effectiveness of macropru-
dential policies in five Asia-Pacific countries (Australia, Indonesia, New Zealand, the Philippines
and Thailand) and find that a tightening in macroprudential policy has a stronger effect on house-
11

hold credit growth than an easing, that banks’ size and liquidity influence the effects, and that
macroprudential policy is effective in reducing bank risk as measured by the non-performing loan
ratio.
Also relevant for global liquidity flows are the dynamics of internal capital market lending
within global banks. Recall from the discussion of Figure 1 that global banks use their internal
capital markets to move global liquidity to and from locations served by affiliates within their
banking organizations. The affiliate locations engage in banking activities with local customers,
and analytics show that flows of credit from such hosted banks are more insulated from global
factors compared with cross-border lending. While this form of financing for activity could be
preferable for local borrowers, at times host countries resist foreign entry out of concern for lost
market share and reduced profitability of entrenched domestic financiers. Moreover, a darker
side of such globalization is that multinational banks may also employ bank acquisitions and
internal capital markets to avoid regulatory scrutiny or to exploit regulatory arbitrage, which
could be problematic from financial stability perspective. Karolyi and Taboada (2015) find that
acquisition flows involve acquirers from countries with stronger regulations than their targets.
Houston, Lin, and Ma (2012) conclude that banks tend to transfer funds to markets with fewer
regulations.
Still, not all locations are treated analogously by foreign parent banks. Global banks may
prioritize across affiliate locations when their balance sheets are shocked. When U.S. parent
banks were hit by funding shocks in the Great Recession, Cetorelli and Goldberg (2012) showed
that global bank reallocated liquidity in their organizations according to their own locational
pecking order . Flows to affiliate locations that are core - that is, locations that are important
for the specific parent bank’s revenue streams or funding - are relatively protected. Accordingly,
despite the general message of the relative stability of local lending through global bank affiliates,
locations that are overall less important to that global parent (periphery) nonetheless may ex-
perience sharper changes in available local liquidity. In general, affiliate locations that are more
peripheral are less protected from foreign shocks. The response of foreign banks to domestic
shocks can provide more credit stability. De Haas and Van Lelyveld (2010) analyse the structure
of internal capital markets and emphasising that, as a result of parental support, foreign bank
subsidiaries may not have to cut credit supply during crisis times. Frey and Kerl (2015) argue
that the more an affiliate located abroad relies on intra-bank funding during the crisis, the greater
its dependence on its parent bank having a stable deposit base and long-term wholesale funding
position.
Combining such insights with the evidence about banks’ risk management and risk-absorption
capacity emphasizes the importance of using granular data and recognizing the heterogeneity
of experiences in understanding the consequences of changes in risk sentiment or in funding
12

conditions. Global liquidity responds more to risk shocks when banks are less well capitalized
and have more binding restrictions on their balance sheets. These banks contract cross-border
lending to a greater degree. At the same time, internal capital market flows vis-a-vis affiliates may
respond to a greater degree for the foreign locations that are not part of the core business of the
banking organization. In this case, more of the risk-sentiment shock would pass through into the
lending to local borrowers by hosted foreign banks, even while we more generally observe relatively
stable lending by the hosted foreign banks. The observations also underscore the importance of
appropriate prudential policies, and hint at the challenges in crafting frameworks. Moreover,
similar mechanisms are likely to be at play for non-banks – but this part of the financial system
remains under-researched in comparison to global banks. Next, we turn to another area where
banks and non-banks share similarity – their importance for the stability of the financial system.
3 Financial Stability Regulation: The Role of Banks and Non-
Banks
The global financial crisis has been a watershed for the regulation of banking markets and for
efforts to address financial stability risks beyond banking. This section starts with a brief de-
scription of the post-global financial crisis reform agenda for banks and discusses the implications
for non-banks.2The rationale underlying financial stability regulation is summarized and this
reasoning is applied to banks and non-banks. Evidence gathered by the too-big-to-fail evalua-
tion project of the Financial Stability Board on the implications of banking regulation for the
evolution of NBFI also is overviewed.
3.1 Why Regulate? The Post Financial Crisis Reform Agenda for Banks and
Non-Banks
It has long been understood that banks and financial markets need to be regulated. Banks provide
important services by lending to the real economy and providing deposit services. Banks also
take on risks, and small, uninformed depositors are insured against these risks through deposit
insurance. As any insurance, this can lead to frictions like moral hazard and the exploitation
of information asymmetries between banks and their customers. Banking regulation and, in
particular, capital regulation can be seen as a direct response to these frictions (Dewatripont and
Tirole, 1994).
With the increasing integration of global banking markets and volumes of global liquidity
flows that we have documented, however, national supervision is not sufficient to address banking
2This section is partly based on Buch (2023).
13

risks. Historically, global coordination of banking regulation was indeed triggered by instabilities
on global financial markets. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) was founded
in 1974 by the central bank governors of the 10 largest industrialized countries in response to
the Herstatt crisis with the objective to strengthen global financial stability. Shortly before that,
the German Herstatt bank had become insolvent as a result of speculation in foreign exchange
markets (Bank for International Settlements, 2023).
Coordination of international banking regulation took several steps. The Basel Concordat
in 1975 provided a basic framework for internationally active banks. An 8% minimum capital
requirement for these banks was established (Basel I) in 1988 and market risks were incorporated
in 1996. In 2004, the framework was extended to a three-pillar approach (Basel II) with minimum
capital requirements, a qualitative approach, and enhanced transparency and market discipline.
This approach, however, did not sufficiently address excessive risk-taking and, in particular,
did not address systemic risk. During the global financial crisis, it became clear that the use
of banks’ internal models to calculate capital requirements created opportunities for banks to
understate risks, including systemic risks. This contributed to an undercapitalization of the
banking system and an excessive amplification of external shocks. This type of amplification is
in line with the evidence that we have presented.
Perhaps one of the most important innovations in the reform package passed after the global
financial crisis has been the explicit acknowledgement of systemic risk. Owners and managers of
banks with limited liability may lose sight of risks to the banks’ own depositors, but they may
also take on too much risk that could negatively affect uninvolved parties. This might put the
functioning of the financial system at risk and thereby have negative implications for the real
economy. Following the global financial crisis, “financial stability” has thus been designated as
an explicit policy objective.
Contributing to financial stability has always been a core function of central banks and is,
indeed, a key element of the Basel Core Principles for supervision. Yet, designated macropruden-
tial functions and institutions have been established in many jurisdictions only after the financial
crisis. In essence, the aim of financial stability policies is to protect the functioning of the financial
system: to enable the safe investment of savings, the financing of investments and innovations,
as well as the smooth processing of payment transactions. At the national level, macropruden-
tial policy is typically the shared responsibility of central banks, microprudential supervisors,
and Ministries of Finance, while the division of labor and the institutional set up varies across
countries. International and supra-national institutions like the European Systemic Risk Board
(ESRB) and the Financial Stability Board (FSB), which essentially comprises G20 jurisdictions
and international organizations, have been established to coordinate macroprudential policy and
analyse risks to financial stability.
14

Generally, the post-crisis reforms had four objectives.footnoteFinancial Stability Board (2020);
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (2017). This and the following section are partly based
on Buch (2021). The first objective has been enhancing resilience by improving the capitalization
of banks qualitatively and quantitatively. Higher capital requirements that address structural
and cyclical risks not only strengthen individual banks but also have positive implications for
financial stability. If individual banks experience losses but can absorb these losses by drawing
down their capital buffers, they have to liquidate fewer assets. Price pressure on asset markets is
mitigated which, in turn, reduces pressure on other financial institutions that have invested in the
same types of assets. The “fire sale” channel of financial crises becomes less important, damping
amplification and an important transmission channel also between banks and non-banks.
The second and related objective of post crisis reforms has been to address the “too-big-to-
fail” problem. Large, systemically important institutions have to meet higher capital requirements
than small banks, whose failure would have more limited repercussions on the financial system.
New regimes and institutions for the recovery and resolution of banks make it possible to deal
with systemically important banks that become distressed. It addition, instruments to strengthen
loss-absorption by private creditors were strengthened (the bail-in approach) in order to mitigate
the burden imposed on taxpayers and society in case of widespread bank failures (Lewrick, Serena,
and Turner, 2019).
A third reform area addressed risks to financial stability beyond banking. Contagion effects
during the global financial crisis were amplified by a high degree of opacity in derivative markets,
which were largely organized “over-the-counter”. Also, governance mechanisms of contracts were
deficient by allowing the originator of securitized assets to completely shift risks on to third
parties, thereby creating disincentives to monitor risks. These issues have been addressed by
the reforms. Incentives to centrally clear derivatives have been strengthened and incentives of
originators and investors in securitized assets have become better aligned.
A few short-term fixes were made in 2009 in response to the global financial crisis. The Basel
Committee decided to fundamentally review the Basel framework by splitting this work into two
packages. The first package was finalised and published in 2011. Among other things, it enhanced
the quality and quantity of capital by introducing both a stricter definition of bank capital and
capital buffers. These buffers reduce the pro-cyclicality of bank capital regulation and address
systemic risks. New liquidity requirements also were introduced.
The second package was finalized in 2017. It aims at increasing the comparability of risk-
weighted assets among banks by amending and recalibrating the two approaches that are used to
calculate risk weights – the standardised and the internal model approach. The output floor has
been introduced to reduce differences between the two approaches. The European Union (EU)
implemented the first package in 2014. The legislative parties in the EU agreed in June 2023 on
15

the final implementation of the second packages as well, with the new rules becoming effective
on 1 January 2025 and including some transitional arrangements so that the full set of rules are
applicable by the end of 2032.
Finally, financial institutions outside the banking sector are today more tightly regulated
and monitored. The FSB issues regular monitoring reports on NBFI (Financial Stability Board,
2022c). This work started off by focusing on “shadow banking”, but was later on made more
specific by differentiating between three measures of non-bank financial intermediaries, for which
various risk metrics are collected and analysed.First, the entire NBFI sector consists of all financial
institutions that are not central banks, banks, or public financial institutions, with total financial
assets of this aggregate amounted to 239 trillion USD or 49% of total global financial assets at the
end of 2021. A second measure of NBFI is the group of Other Financial Intermediaries (OFIs)
that comprises all intermediaries that are not banks, central banks, insurance companies, pension
funds, or financial auxiliaries. This group accounts for 64% of the NBFI sector and includes
hedge funds, money market funds, other investment funds, central counterparties, broker-dealers,
and structured financial vehicles, among others. Third, a narrow measure of NBFI accounts for
about one quarter of the total NBFI sector and comprises credit-intermediation activities that
can create similar risks as bank lending due to liquidity risk, maturity transformation, or leverage.
3.2 Reform Evaluation
Since the inception of these reforms, the financial system has been changing, market shares
have shifted, and digitalization has been changing the way in which many financial services are
provided. Hence, assessing the effects of the reforms and the implications for financial stability
is an on-going process. In order to analyze the effects, including potential negative side effects of
the reforms, in 2017 the Financial Stability Board (FSB) established a designated framework for
reform evaluation (Financial Stability Board, 2017).
Several reform elements have already been evaluated using this framework. By and large, the
results of these evaluations are quite encouraging. Essentially, the reforms have achieved their
objectives of making the financial system more resilient, without significant negative side effects.
For example, one concern has been that higher capital requirements could have negative effects on
the financing of relatively opaque firms such as small and medium-sized enterprises or that large
investments into infrastructure finance could be affected negatively. Such unintended negative
side effects of tighter regulation have not materialized (Financial Stability Board, 2018a, 2019).
Meanwhile, reforms have increased the transparency of markets for derivatives through higher
collateralisation and improvements in transparency and standardisation, thereby reducing sys-
temic risk and expanding some protections against market abuse. In particular, central coun-
terparty (CCP) clearing obligations as well as higher capital and margin requirements for non-
16

centrally cleared derivatives help to protect against counterparty credit risk. However, an increase
in liquidity risk can occur as sudden large changes in margin requirements can be destabilising
(Financial Stability Board, 2018b).
As regards the “too-big-to-fail” issue, evaluations point to both important achievements, but
also remaining gaps that still need to be closed (Financial Stability Board, 2021a). In terms
of achievements, banks now have higher loss-absorbing capacity, resolution reforms have been
implemented, and the pricing of different sources of bank funding better reflects the likelihood
that certain financial instruments will contribute to covering losses of distressed banks. Progress is
this area continues to be important, as demonstrated by bank strains in 2023. Resolution reforms
that ensure dealing with banks in the gone concern case operate through the incentives in the
going concern: The more likely it is that investors lose money in the gone concern, the higher
the risk premium they demand in the going concern, and the better aligned are the incentives of
bank managers to reduce risk. Prior to the TBTF reforms, the risk of failure was not properly
priced. Bond holders could bet on fiscal support in times of distress, demand lower risk premia,
and banks enjoyed “implicit funding subsidies”. These funding advantages compared to less
systemically important banks have declined, but have not disappeared.
The fact that implicit funding subsidies have not been eliminated points to the gaps in the
TBTF reforms that reduce the credibility of resolution regimes. It is, for example, difficult to
obtain transparent and consistent information on the investors that hold the total loss absorbing
capital (TLAC) in banks. These investors are often non-banks, hence more transparency about
these financial linkages between banks and non-banks are important to understand channels
of spill-overs. Similarly, there is no internationally consistent information on the nature and
regulation of domestic systemically important banks (D-SIBs) – although recent stress episodes
in banking markets have shown that even stress of relatively small, regional banks may have
broader market repercussions. Finally, resolution regimes in many countries remain complex,
and not all reforms have been fully implemented.
Overall, better regulation and tighter supervision of banks since the global financial crisis have
been accompanied by an expansion of market share by non-banks. Risks may thus have been
shifted to better-capitalized institutions – but the shift in market shares can also be destabilizing
if it ultimately reflects arbitrage and the evasion of regulation (Goldberg, 2023). Indeed, there
has been a large increase in nonbank incorporations in low regulation countries (Pogliani, von
Peter, and Wooldridge, 2022). Within bank holding company structures, some evidence points
to bank subsidiaries expanding internal dividends paid to the parent organisation regardless of
their income stream while non-bank subsidiaries enjoy a protection from such pressures (Pogach
and Unal, 2019).
Summing up, this section has argued that reforms to the regulatory framework of banks
17

and non-banks cannot be seen in isolation. Tighter regulation of banks shifts, ceteris paribus,
activities to non-banks who gain market shares. Non-banks provide funding to banks, andbanks
and non-banks invest into similar assets and markets. This increases common exposure to risks.
In the next section, recent stress episodes demonstrates some of the interlinkages between banks
and non-banks.
4 Feedback Channels between Banks and Non-Banks
Banks and non-banks differ in terms of their role in the financial system. Banks have privileged
access to liquidity through the central bank, they are an integral part of the process of money
creation, and their liabilities are protected by deposit insurance. Thus, there is a fundamental
societal interest in a functioning banking system – but also in limiting moral hazard and systemic
risk. Non-banks provide funds to finance the real economy and perform important functions:
they enable the intermediation of long-term risks and the diversification of investments. They
are typically less dependent on very short-term debt financing than banks. Nonetheless, non-
banks face significant liquidity risks as well.
4.1 Structural change and the role of the financial sector
Although the international reform agenda largely treats banks and non-banks as being distinct,
the two sectors are closely interlinked. They are interlinked not only via balance sheet linkages
and similar portfolios, but also because of complementarities when it comes to the provision
of credit to the real economy. Both, bank and non-bank financial intermediation have specific
roles to play in financing transitions in the real economy and in global liquidity provision. The
need for such financing and for the risk sharing properties of flows are underscored by the rich
pattern of structural changes underway. These can arise from changing patterns of globalization,
the energy transition, demographic change, and digitalization, all of which require adjustment
in the real economy and associated financial flows. External finance is particularly important
for new market entrants and de novo firms that cannot finance their expansion from internal
sources.Different forms of finance complement each other. Bank and other forms of debt finance
may not be the most suitable forms of funding when it comes to investment projects with a
long time horizon and subject to a high degree of uncertainty. Many investments will require
types of equity finance provided through markets and start-up finance. In some instances, high
uncertainty and externalities that are insufficiently internalized by the private sector may also
require a combination of private and public funding. Hence, bank and non-bank, market-based
finance both play their distinct roles in financing the real economy.
18

4.2 Banks and non-banks during stress episodes
Apart from their roles in financing the real economy, non-banks have often come under pres-
sure during periods of stress on international financial markets – with repercussions also on the
banking sector. In March 2020, for example, at the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, stress
and uncertainty abruptly increased in financial markets worldwide. The pandemic gave rise to
a high degree of fundamental uncertainty (Lagarde, 2020). Prices of stocks and corporate bonds
plummeted, demand for liquidity increased, investors fled to safer assets, and highly liquid as-
sets were needed to meet margin calls on collateralized transactions. Effects were felt across
many financial institutions and many attempted to liquidate securities simultaneously (Financial
Stability Board, 2020). Some of the consequences were reflected in the Dash for Cash episode
documented for US Treasuries (Barone, Chaboud, Copeland, Kavoussi, Keane, and Searls, 2022).
Dollar funding market strains and potential contractionary effects on bank credit provision at
home and abroad were partially addressed through the network of standing swap lines across
central banks and temporary facilities that were activated (Goldberg and Ravazzolo, 2022).
Beyond a litany of official sector interventions activated to address financial strains, across
countries differences in business models across financial institutions provided both risk-sharing
opportunities and some stabilizing effects on the financial system. In Germany, for example, well-
capitalized life insurers, which tend to have long-term liabilities, tended to invest countercyclically
by buying up bonds that had fallen in price. Less well-capitalized life insurers, however, acted
procyclically (Deutsche Bundesbank, 2020, 2021). Across countries, sufficient liquidity and a
good capitalization in the financial system were demonstrated to be crucial for the functioning
of banks and non-banks alike in periods of stress (Financial Stability Board, 2020).
In March 2021, another stress episode associated with the failure of the U.S.-based hedge
fund Archegos Capital had repercussions quickly felt across many banks and non-banks (European
Systemic Risk Board, 2022a). Using highly leveraged derivatives, Archegos had built up relatively
large and concentrated positions based on a relatively weak capital position, exposing the fund
to fluctuations of stock prices. The counterparts on many of these trades were internationally
active banks (Federal Reserve Board, 2021). When share prices fell, Archegos was unable to meet
its margin calls; several banks had to sell shares held to hedge their derivatives at substantial
discounts. This resulted in high losses for the banks concerned. The applicable form and degree
of supervision and regulation influenced this dynamic. As Archegos was registered as a family
office in the USA, weaker reporting and disclosure requirements applied compared with those for
some other market participants (Financial Stability Board, 2022b; Deutsche Bundesbank, 2021).
In March 2022, the new structure for derivatives markets was tested when market participants
on European power exchanges, especially energy suppliers, came under severe pressure following
19

the Russian invasion of Ukraine and emerging disruptions to energy markets. Energy suppliers
were faced with higher margin requirements to satisfy their hedging transactions on the derivatives
market. Several governments stepped in with guarantees and lending programs to ease bottlenecks
in terms of liquidity (Deutsche Bundesbank, 2022). Stress clearly originated in the real economy
and spilled into the financial system, despite improved robustness due to the central counterparties
(CCPs) for derivatives which have grown in importance due to the reforms of the derivatives
markets.
Then, over the course of 2022, higher interest rates and a more volatile macroeconomic en-
vironment contributed to tighter liquidity overall, with liquidity problems arising in some UK
pension funds. A sudden increase in interest rates on UK government bonds led to a drop in the
price of long-dated gilts and margin calls on interest rate derivatives. Pension funds had to post
additional collateral related to their repo market activities and sold UK government bonds into
an illiquid market, thereby triggering a self-reinforcing downward spiral. A purchase program
launched by the Bank of England stopped the downward price spiral (Breeden, 2022; Deutsche
Bundesbank, 2022). As liability-driven investments (LDI) have been an important amplifier of
the initial shock, the Bank of England later published a review and regulatory recommendations
for these markets (Bank of England, 2023).
All these stress episodes differ in their causes and the channels of transmission between banks
and non-banks. Yet, they have in common that tensions were triggered by unexpectedly large
shocks. While both microprudential and macroprudential stress testing models for non-banks do
exist, some models had not taken such large shocks into account. As early as in 2018, for example,
the Bank of England’s Financial Policy Committee (FPC) had examined vulnerabilities in the
pension fund sector. However, market volatility in the fall of 2022 far exceeded the assumptions
of these models. For example, while a 100 basis point increase in gilt yields was assumed by the
Bank of England in a stress scenario, the actual increase in the fall of 2022 was much higher
at around 160 basis points (Bank of England, 2018). Moreover, existing macroprudential NBFI
stress tests tended to focus on individual non-bank segments, rather than on system-wide demand
and supply of liquidity (Aikman, Beale, Brinley Codd, Covi, H¨ user, and Lepore, 2023). More
generally, while vulnerabilities in the financial system are often known before stress episodes
actually happen. Yet, it is can be difficult to predict the diverse sources of shocks, assess the
impact of risk events quantitatively, and take preventive action sufficiently fast and decisively.
International policy fora are currently looking into the question of what conclusions can be drawn
from past stress episodes and how the resilience of non-banks can be increased (Financial Stability
Board, 2023b,c).
20

4.3 Exposure of Non-Banks to Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk is certainly one important area of attention. The global economy has gone through
a long period of low interest rates and ample liquidity provision by central banks. This period was
followed by a sometimes steep increases in interest rates and withdrawal of quantitative easing.
Changing liquidity conditions affect banks and non-banks differently, reflecting differences in
business models.
Take the adjustment in the German financial system as an example. In Germany, insurers
hold around 11% of financial assets and life insurers, in turn, account for a significant share
of these assets.3Life-insurers typically have very long-term liabilities and invest a large part
of their funds in long-term bonds. Rising interest rates thus generally improve the solvency of
life-insurers. However, insurers are also exposed to liquidity risks in the form of lapse risks and
margin calls from derivatives (European Systemic Risk Board, 2020). As long-term interest rates
rise, alternative investments become more attractive from the customer’s perspective, and lapse
risks may increase. Liquidity risks may also arise from interest rate derivatives, which life-insurers
use to hedge against falling long-term interest rates (Deutsche Bundesbank, 2022).
3In the third quarter of 2022, life insures accounted for around 50% of the balance sheet of the German insurance
sector (Versicherungen |Deutsche Bundesbank).
21

Figure 3: German banks asset structure
The possibility of fire sales shows that systemic risks of banks and non-banks cannot be
considered in isolation. Liquidity risks at non-banks can lead to contagion effects throughout the
financial system. Insurers and pension institutions are strongly intertwined directly with funds
through their investments (Figure 4). If the value of fund shares falls, this is directly reflected in
insurers’ balance sheets. However, contagion effects can also arise via indirect linkages. If banks,
insurers and funds hold similar securities, forced asset sales by one intermediary can affect the
balance sheets of other intermediaries.
Open-ended investment funds account for 12% of financial assets in Germany. They issue
fund shares and invest in a wide range of assets, including in securities such as shares or bonds.
The duration of bonds held by funds increased markedly during the period of low interest rates.
Rising interest rates such as those seen in 2022 therefore lead to significant losses in the valuation
of bonds in the portfolios of investment funds. While this has not led to significant redemptions
by fund investors, duration risk may amplify outflows in the presence of currency risk.
Cross-border linkages harbor additional risks, in addition to the well-documented opportuni-
ties (Buch and Goldberg, 2020). German banks, for example, are strongly linked internationally.
Moreover, two-thirds of the claims of investment funds are held vis-` a-vis foreign counterparts
(Figure 4). Globally, beyond the contributions to global liquidity increasing, the cross-border
interlinkages of non-banks and banks have risen sharply worldwide in recent years (Aldasoro,
22

Huang, and Kemp, 2020). Hence, foreign exchange risks and geopolitical risks tend to rise as
non-banks are increasingly investing outside the euro area (Deutsche Bundesbank, 2021). For ex-
ample, investigating flows into emerging market bonds, Bertaut, Bruno, and Shin (2023) confirm
that when the duration of bonds held by funds is high, the risk of procyclical behaviour by funds
is exacerbated. When investors react to losses by abruptly redeeming fund shares, funds may be
forced to sell assets. This may lead to further price declines, particularly in less liquid market
segments. Sales of illiquid assets can then lead to spirals in which the liquidity of entire market
segments declines, thus also affecting other financial institutions (Brunnermeier and Pedersen,
2009).
4.4 Systemic Risk and the Regulation of Non-Banks
Systemic risks that may emanate from the NBFI sector require appropriate regulation. Like
banks, non-banks need sufficient resilience to reduce the likelihood of distress and prevent the
amplification of shocks domestically, and internationally through global liquidity flows and dis-
ruptions of market functioning. Potential negative externalities weigh towards regulation that,
similar to banks, looks not only at the individual institution but also at the financial system as
a whole.
As previously discussed, liquidation of assets held by investment funds can lead to a decline
in asset prices that affects the entire financial system. From the perspective of an individual
fund, it may make sense to sell securities as funds are being withdrawn. However, this can
trigger negative price spirals and international spillovers. Buffers in the form of liquid assets
or designated instruments that limit withdrawals can limit such systemic risks (Di Iasio and
Kryczka, 2021; Chernenko and Sunderam, 2020).
Contagion through increased liquidity demand due to margin calls should, in principle, be
reduced with clearing via CCPs if trades are sufficiently collateralized. In exceptionally volatile
market phases, however, collateral requirements may increase abruptly and unexpectedly, thus
triggering destabilizing feedback effects among market participants. In the examples presented
for Fall 2022, when margin calls led to a sudden need for liquidity among British pension funds,
which in turn sold government bonds and withdrew funds from money market funds (Euro-
pean Securities and Markets Authority, 2023b), the distress at money market funds spilled-over
to money markets. In March 2020, investors withdrew funds from money market funds, thus
severely impacting funding on money markets (Financial Stability Board, 2020). In both cases,
central banks intervened and provided liquidity to markets. Such interventions may be needed in
times of unexpected and extreme market stress, but they also create the risk of financial domi-
nance (Brunnermeier, 2023). Hence, these episodes have also reinforced the urgency of discussions
about the appropriate liquidity regulation of non-bank financial intermediaries that ensures suffi-
23

Figure 4: Structure of the German financial system
24

cient resilience.4These episodes also prompt an examination of the current regulatory approach
that gives central counterparties a relatively large degree of freedom when calculating collateral
requirements (Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and Committee on Payments and Mar-
ket Infrastructures and Board of the International Organization of Securities Commissions, 2022).
Regulatory discussions in Europe are focussing on the need to better mitigate the potential pro-
cyclical effects of large scale margin changes as well as limit the spread of liquidity stress to other
parts of the financial system (European Securities and Markets Authority, 2023a).
A number of current international initiatives aim at improving the regulation of liquidity
risks incurred by non-banks. For example, improvements of instruments for managing liquidity
risks of open-ended investment funds are under discussion (Financial Stability Board, 2022a,b).
Depending on their design, these instruments limit the redemption of fund shares (quantity-
based) or vary the price of fund shares in such a way as to reduce the risk of sharp withdrawals
by investors (price-based). For example, “Swing Pricing”, a price-based instrument, adjusts the
pricing of fund shares such that the costs of outflows of liquidity will be allocated to those fund
investors that trigger the costs (Deutsche Bundesbank, 2021). This mitigates externalities, makes
distress sales less likely, and limits contagion effects.
Recent empirical evidence looks at the effectiveness of instruments to manage liquidity risks.
During the stress phase in March 2020, for example, Irish funds recorded large outflows. A study
of Dunne, Emter, Fecht, Giuliana, and Peia (2022) shows that price-based liquidity management
tools used by these funds helped limiting outflows. However, the availability and application of
such instruments varies widely between jurisdictions. In Germany, fund managers have been able
to use new instruments for liquidity management since 2020 (Bundesanstalt f¨ ur Finanzdienstleis-
tungsaufsicht, 2023). However, the majority of fund managers have not yet applied price-based
tools (Bundesanstalt f¨ ur Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, 2022). To ensure greater clarity on the
redemption terms and to address systemic risks, funds could be divided into different groups
depending on their liquidity (Financial Stability Board, 2022a, 2023a). Funds with low liquidity
would then be subject to constraints with regard to the terms of fund share redemption or with
regard to liquidity management instruments.
Another regulatory response currently being discussed is introducing provisions regarding
liquidity risks within the ongoing review of the EU insurance regulation (Solvency II).5Currently,
Solvency II, does not contain any specific provisions on liquidity risk management. There are also
no quantitative regulatory requirements under Solvency II to ensure that assets are sufficiently
4See Financial Stability Board (2021b), European Systemic Risk Board (2022b), Letter to Members of the
Council Working Party on the Solvency II Review and Liquidity Risk Management (europa.eu), and Letter to
Members of the European Parliament on the Solvency II Review and Liquidity Risk Management (europa.eu).
5See Letter to Members of the Council Working Party on the Solvency II Review and Liquidity Risk Management
(europa.eu) and Letter to Members of the European Parliament on the Solvency II Review and Liquidity Risk
Management (europa.eu)
25

liquid to meet the payment of surrender values and additional liquidity needs. An obligation for
(re)insurers to conduct internal liquidity stress tests would be a clear improvement, e.g. within the
framework of a mandatory liquidity risk management plan for insurance companies. Therefore,
systematic reporting by insurers to supervisors could be introduced to better assess individual
and systemic risks (European Commission, 2021).
Ultimately, however, good management of liquidity risks requires both appropriate regulation
and sound risk management of individual institutions. By holding a sufficient amount of highly
liquid assets, market participants can increase their resilience with regard to high margin calls
during stress periods. Increasing the transparency of the margin model used by central counter-
parties, in turn, can help market participants in assessing the liquidity risk arising from central
clearing. The EU Commission has published proposals how to enhance transparency (European
Commission, 2022), and international regulators are also exploring how margin models can be
made less procyclical (Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and Committee on Payments and
Market Infrastructures and Board of the International Organization of Securities Commissions,
2022).
5 The Way Forward
Banks and non-banks have distinct functions in the economy and take different risks according to
their respective business models. The close linkages between these sectors and the migration of
activities across sectors warrants a holistic view of the functioning and stability of the financial
system. We have reviewed the rich literature on the evolution of bank- and non-bank financial
flows, the rationale for regulation, the behaviour of markets in times of stress, and the on-going
regulatory debate. Our review of the literature shows that these flows are important in global
liquidity and have real consequences. Both bank and non-bank financial intermediaries engage in
credit provision but also can generate systemic risk effects through common exposures, leverage,
and liquidity risks.
Our literature review also shows the advanced state of evidence on the response of banks to
changes in the macroeconomic environment and to regulation. By contrast, the body of evidence
on similar questions for non-bank financial intermediaries is newly emerging. One reason for this
asymmetry has been differences in data availability and the higher degree of heterogeneity of the
intermediaries in the non-bank financial sector. More work is needed in particular to understand
the linkages between banks and non-banks. Understanding liquidity risk management within and
across financial institutions is one priority. Also highly relevant is developing a better under-
standing of the frictions and constraints that can induce procyclicalities, and sharp responses in
financial flows and pricing. More granular data is rapidly being accessed by researchers to explore
26

the effects of shocks on specific institutions, financial markets, and interconnectedness. Meanwhile
and internationally, policy frameworks are continuing to evolve, including around macropruden-
tial instruments and regulation and supervision. This evolution aims to appropriately address
risks while accounting for the different functions of intermediaries, the related constraints asso-
ciated with their business models, and the tendencies for activity to migrate across institutions
and locations.
27

References
Aikman, David, Daniel Beale, Adam Brinley Codd, Giovanni Covi, Anne-Caroline
H¨ user, and Caterina Lepore. 2023. “Macroprudential stress-test models: a survey.”
Aldasoro, I˜ naki, Wenqian Huang, and Esti Kemp. 2020. “Cross-Border Links between
Banks and Non-bank Financial Institutions.” BIS Quarterly Review 2020 (September): .
Avdjiev, Stefan, Leonardo Gambacorta, Linda S. Goldberg, and Stefano Schiaffi.
2020. “The Shifting Drivers of Global Liquidity.” Journal of International Economics 125
103324.
Avdjiev, Stefan, Leonardo Gambacorta, Linda S. Goldberg, and Stefano Schiaffi.
2023. “Financial Regulation, Risk Migration, and Global Liquidity Flows.”
Bank for International Settlements. 2023. “History of the Basel Committee.” Available at
https://www.bis.org/bcbs/history.htm .
Bank of England. 2018. Financial Stability Report 2018 .
Bank of England. 2023. “LDI minimum resilience - recommendation and explainer..”
Barone, Jordan, Alain P. Chaboud, Adam Copeland, Cullen Kavoussi, Frank M.
Keane, and Seth Searls. 2022. “The Global Dash for Cash in March 2020.”Technical report,
Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. 2017. “Basel III: Finalising Post-Crisis Re-
forms.”
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and Committee on Payments and Market
Infrastructures and Board of the International Organization of Securities Commis-
sions. 2022. “Review of Margining Practices.” September.
Baskaya, Yusuf Soner, Mahir Binici, and Turalay Kenc. 2018. “International banking
and cross-border effects of regulation: lessons from Turkey.” International Journal of Central
Banking (48): 379–403.
Berrospide, Jose, Ricardo Correa, Linda S. Goldberg, and Friederike Niepmann.
2016. “International banking and cross-border effects of regulation: Lessons from the United
States.”Technical report, National Bureau of Economic Research.
Bertaut, Carol, Valentina Bruno, and Hyun Song Shin. 2023. “Original sin redux: role
of duration risk.”Technical report.
28

Breeden, Sarah. 2022. “Risks from leverage: how did a small corner of
the pensions industry threaten financial stability?”, Speech given at ISDA &
AIMA. Available at https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/speech/2022/november/
sarah-breeden-speech-at-isda-aimi-boe-on-nbfi-and-leverage .
Brunnermeier, Markus. 2023. Re-Thinking Monetary Policy in a Changing World . Princeton.
Mimeo.
Brunnermeier, Markus K., and Lasse Heje Pedersen. 2009. “Market Liquidity and Fund-
ing Liquidity.” The Review of Financial Studies 22 (6): 2201–2238.
Bruno, Valentina, Ilhyock Shim, and Hyun Song Shin. 2017. “Comparative assessment
of macroprudential policies.” Journal of Financial Stability 28 183–202. https://doi.org/10.
1016/j.jfs.2016.04.001.
Buch, Claudia M. 2021. “10 Years after: Where Are We?”, Introductory remarks prepared for
the policy panel at the high-level conference “EBA @ 10”. 26 October 2021. Paris.
Buch, Claudia M. 2023. “Finanzstabilit¨ at in Zeiten des Strukturwandels.” Speech at the
“Bankenabend” of the Bundesbank‘s Regional Office in Baden-W¨ urttemberg. 28 February 2023.
Stuttgart.
Buch, Claudia M., and Linda S. Goldberg. 2017. “Cross-Border Prudential Policy Spillovers:
How Much? How Important? Evidence from the International Banking Research Network.”
International Journal of Central Banking 48 505–558.
Buch, Claudia M., and Linda S. Goldberg. 2020. “Global Banking: Toward an Assessment
of Benefits and Costs.” Annual Review of Financial Economics 12 (1): 141–175.
Bundesanstalt f¨ ur Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht. 2022. “Investmentfonds: Liq-
uidit¨ atsmanagementtools in der Praxis.” Available at https://www.bafin.de/
SharedDocs/Veroeffentlichungen/DE/Fachartikel/2022/fa_bj_2212_Investmentfonds_
Liquiditaetstools.html;jsessionid=A09AFE353550363165ECFD4E629D605B.1_cid500 .
Bundesanstalt f¨ ur Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht. 2023. “Liquidit¨ atstools f¨ ur Invest-
mentfonds - Bessere Liquidit¨ atssteuerung bei Fonds.” Available at https://www.bafin.de/
DE/Verbraucher/GeldanlageWertpapiere/Wertpapiergeschaefte/Liquiditaetstools/
liquiditaetstools_artikel.html#: ~:text=Thema%20Verbraucherschutz%20Bessere%
20Liquidit%C3%A4tssteuerung%20bei,offenen%20Investmentverm%C3%B6gen%20besser%
20steuern%20k%C3%B6nnen .
29

Bush, Georgia, Tom´ as G´ omez, Alejandro Jara, David Moreno, Konstantin Styrin,
and Yulia Ushakova. 2020. “Macroprudential policy and the inward transmission of monetary
policy shocks: The case of Chile, M´ exico, and Russia.” Review of International Economics 29
37–60.
Bussi` ere, Matthieu, Jin Cao, Jakob de Haan, Robert Hills, Simon Lloyd, Baptiste
Meunier, Justine Pedrono, Dennis Reinhardt, Sonalika Sinha, Rhiannon Sower-
butts, and Konstantin Styrin. 2021. “The Interaction Between Macroprudential Policy
and Monetary Policy: Overview.” Review of International Economics 29 (1): 1–19.
Bussi` ere, Matthieu, Julia Schmidt, and Fr´ ed´ eric Vinas. 2016. “International banking and
cross-border effects of regulation: Lessons from france.” DOCUMENT DE TRAVAIL (599): .
Caccavaio, Marianna, Luisa Carpinelli, and Giuseppe Marinelli. 2018. “International
banking and cross-border effects of regulation: Lessons from italy.” International Journal of
Central Banking (48): 223–247.
Cao, Jin, Valeriya Dinger, Anna Grodecka-Messi, Ragnar Juelsrud, and Xin Zhang.
2021. “The interaction between macroprudential and monetary policies: The cases of Norway
and Sweden.” Review of International Economics 29 87–116.
Cetorelli, Nicola, and Linda S. Goldberg. 2012. “Liquidity Management of US Global
Banks: Internal Capital Markets in the Great Recession.” Journal of International Economics
88 (2): 299–311.
CGFS. 2011. “Global Liquidity—Concept, Measurement and Policy Implications.” Committee
on the Global Financial System .
Chernenko, Sergey, and Adi Sunderam. 2020. “Do Fire Sales Create Externalities?” Journal
of Financial Economics 135 (3): 602–628.
Claessens, Stijn, Giulio Cornelli, Leonardo Gambacorta, Francesco Man-
aresi, and Yasushi Shiina. 2023. “Do macroprudential policies affect non-
bank financial intermediation?” International Journal of Central Banking ,
https://www.ijcb.org/journal/ijcb23q5a5.pdf.
Damar, H Evren, and Adi Mordel. 2016. “International banking and cross-border effects of
regulation: lessons from Canada.” working paper, Bank of Canada.
De Haas, Ralph, and Iman Van Lelyveld. 2010. “Internal capital markets and lending by
multinational bank subsidiaries.” Journal of Financial Intermediation 19 (1): 1–25.
30

Deutsche Bundesbank. 2020. Financial Stability Review 2020 .
Deutsche Bundesbank. 2021. Financial Stability Review 2021 .
Deutsche Bundesbank. 2022. Financial Stability Review 2022 .
Dewatripont, Mathias, and Jean Tirole. 1994. The Prudential Regulation of Banks . Cam-
bridge, MA: The MIT Press.
Di Iasio, Giovanni, and Dominika Kryczka. 2021. “Market Failures in Market-Based Fi-
nance.” Working Paper 2545.
Dunne, Peter G., Lorenz Emter, Falko Fecht, Raffaele Giuliana, and Oana Peia.
2022. “Financial Fragility in Open-ended Mutual Funds: The Role of Liquidity Management
Tools.”Technical report, Available at SSRN: https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?
abstract_id=4282841 . Mimeo.
European Commission. 2021. “Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of
the Council Amending Directive 2009/138/EC as Regards Proportionality, Quality of Supervi-
sion, Reporting, Long-Term Guarantee Measures, Macroprudential Tools, Sustainability Risks,
Group and Cross-border Supervision.”
European Commission. 2022. “Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of
the Council Amending Regulations (EU) No 648/2012, (EU) No 575/2013 and (EU) 2017/1131
as Regards Measures to Mitigate Excessive Exposures to Third-country Central Counterparties
and Improve the Efficiency of Union Clearing Markets.”
European Securities and Markets Authority. 2023a. “Review of the RTS with respect to
the procyclicality of CCP margin. Final report..”
European Securities and Markets Authority. 2023b. “TRV Risk Monitor.” Report on
Trends, Risks and Vulnerabilities 1.
European Systemic Risk Board. 2020. “Enhancing the Macroprudential Dimension of Sol-
vency II.”
European Systemic Risk Board. 2022a. “EU Non-bank Financial Intermediation Risk Mon-
itor 2022.”
European Systemic Risk Board. 2022b. “Recommendation of the ESRB of 2 December 2021
on the Reform of Money Market Funds.”Technical report.
31

Everett, Mary, Jakob de Haan, David-Jan Jansen, Peter McQuade, and Anna Sama-
rina. 2020. “Mortgage lending, monetary policy, and prudential measures in small euro-area
economies: Evidence from Ireland and the Netherlands.” Review of International Economics
29 117–143.
Federal Reserve Board. 2021. “Supervision and Regulation Report.” November.
Financial Stability Board. 2017. “Framework for Post-Implementation Evaluation of the Ef-
fects of the G20 Financial Regulatory Reforms.”
Financial Stability Board. 2018a. “Evaluation of the effects of financial regulatory reforms on
infrastructure finance.”
Financial Stability Board. 2018b. “Incentives to centrally clear over-the-counter (OTC) deriva-
tives.”
Financial Stability Board. 2019. “Evaluation of the effects of financial regulatory reforms on
small and medium-sized enterprise (SME) financing.” final report.
Financial Stability Board. 2020. “Holistic Review of the March Market Turmoil.”
Financial Stability Board. 2021a. “Evaluation of the Effects of Too-Big-To-Fail Reforms.”
final report.
Financial Stability Board. 2021b. “Policy Proposals to Enhance Money Market Fund Re-
silience.” final report.
Financial Stability Board. 2022a. “Assessment of the Effectiveness of the FSB’s 2017 Recom-
mendations on Liquidity Mismatch in Open-Ended Funds.”
Financial Stability Board. 2022b. “Enhancing the Resilience of Non-Bank Financial Interme-
diation.” progress report.
Financial Stability Board. 2022c. “Global Monitoring Report on Non-Bank Financial Inter-
mediation 2022.”
Financial Stability Board. 2023a. “Addressing Structural Vulnerabilities from Liquidity Mis-
match in Open-Ended Funds – Revisions to the FSB’s 2017 Policy Recommendations.” con-
sultation report.
Financial Stability Board. 2023b. “Enhancing the Resilience of Non-Bank Financial Interme-
diation.” progress report.
32

Financial Stability Board. 2023c. “The Financial Stability Implications of Leverage in Non-
Bank Financial Intermediation.”
Frey, R¨ udiger, and Cornelia Kerl. 2015. “Multinational banks in the crisis: Foreign affiliate
lending as a mirror of funding pressure and competition on the internal capital market.” Journal
of Banking & Finance 50 52–68.
Frost, Jon, Jakob de Haan, and Neeltje Van Horen. 2017. “International banking and
cross-border effects of regulation: lessons from the Netherlands.” International Journal of
Central Banking (13(2)): 293–313.
Goldberg, Linda S. 2023. “Global Liquidity: Drivers, Volatility and Toolkits.” IMF Economic
Review forthcoming.
Goldberg, Linda S., and Fabiola Ravazzolo. 2022. “The Fed’s International Dollar Liquidity
Facilities: New Evidence on Effects.” Working Paper 29982, National Bureau of Economic
Research.
Hills, Robert, Dennis Reinhardt, Rhiannon Sowerbutts, and Tomasz Wieladek. 2018.
“International banking and cross-border effects of regulation: lessons from the United King-
dom.” International Journal of Central Banking (48): 405–433.
Houston, Joel F., Chen Lin, and Yaya Ma. 2012. “Regulatory arbitrage and international
bank flows.” The Journal of Finance 67 (5): 1845–1895.
Irani, Rustom M, Rajkamal Iyer, Ralf R Meisenzahl, and Jos´ e-Luis Peydr´ o. 2021.
“The Rise of Shadow Banking: Evidence from Capital Regulation.” The Review of Financial
Studies 34 (5): 2181–2235.
Karolyi, G. Andrew, and Andres G. Taboada. 2015. “Regulatory arbitrage and cross-border
bank acquisitions.” The Journal of Finance 70 (6): 2395–2450.
Kim, You Suk, Karen Pence, Richard Stanton, Johan Walden, and Nancy Wallace.
2022. “Nonbanks and mortgage securitization.” Annual Review of Financial Economics 14
137–166.
Lagarde, Christine. 2020. “The path out of uncertainty.” Remarks by the President of the
ECB at the inaugural session of the Italian National Consultation. Available at https://www.
ecb.europa.eu/press/key/date/2020/html/ecb.sp200613 ~890270bad1.en.html .
33

Levin-Konigsberg, Gabriel, Calixto Lopez, Fabrizio Lopez-Gallo, and Seraf´ ın
Mart´ ınez-Jaramillo. 2018. “International Banking and Cross-border effects of regulation:
Lessons from Mexico.” International Journal of Central Banking (48): 249–271.
Lewrick, Ulf, Jose Maria Serena, and Grant Turner. 2019. “Believing in bail-in? Market
discipline and the pricing of bail-in bonds.” Working Paper 831, BIS Working Papers, BIS
Working Paper 831.
Niepmann, Friederike, Tim Schmidt-Eisenlohr, and Emily Liu. 2021. “The Effect of
US Stress Tests on Monetary Policy Spillovers to Emerging Markets.” Review of International
Economics 29 (1): 165–194.
Ohls, Jana, Marcus Pramor, and Lena Tonzer. 2016. “International banking and cross-
border effects of regulation: Lessons from Germany.”
Park, Hyunggeun, and Jungyeoun Lee. 2018. “International Banking and Cross-border
effects of regulation: Lessons from Korea.” International Journal of Central Banking (48):
273–292.
Pogach, Jonathan, and Haluk Unal. 2019. “The dark side of banks’ nonbank business:
Internal dividends in bank holding companies.”Technical report, FDIC Center for Financial
Research Paper.
Pogliani, Pamela, Goetz von Peter, and Philip Wooldridge. 2022. “The Outsize Role of
Cross-Border Financial Centres.” BIS Quarterly Review .
Rey, H´ el` ene. 2015. “Dilemma Not Trilemma: The Global Financial Cycle and Monetary Policy
Independence.”Technical report, National Bureau of Economic Research.
Sufi, Amir, and Alan Taylor. 2021. “Financial Crises: A Survey.” NBER Working Paper
29155.
34