Title: An Adaptive Multi-Agent Bitcoin Trading System
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2510.08068.pdf
Citation: ArXiv (2025)
Extracted: 2025-12-08T04:57:51.102398 UTC
An Adaptive Multi-Agent Bitcoin Trading System
Aadi Singhi
UCL Computer Science
Abstract
1This paper presents a Multi Agent Bitcoin Trading sys-
tem that utilizes Large Language Models (LLMs) for al-
pha generation and portfolio management in the cryp-
tocurrencies market. Unlike equities, cryptocurrencies
exhibit extreme volatility and are heavily influenced by
rapidly shifting market sentiments and regulatory an-
nouncements, making them difficult to model using static
regression models or neural networks trained solely on
historical data. The proposed framework overcomes this
by structuring LLMs into specialised agents for technical
analysis, sentiment evaluation, decision-making, and per-
formance reflection. The agents improve over time via a
novel verbal feedback mechanism where a Reflect agent
provides daily and weekly natural-language critiques of
trading decisions. These textual evaluations are then in-
jected into future prompts of the agents, allowing them to
adjust allocation logic without weight updates or finetun-
ing. Back-testing on Bitcoin price data from July 2024 to
April 2025 shows consistent outperformance across mar-
ket regimes: the Quantitative agent delivered over 30%
higher returns in bullish phases and 15% overall gains ver-
sus buy-and-hold, while the sentiment-driven agent turned
sideways markets from a small loss into a gain of over
100%. Adding weekly feedback further improved total
performance by 31% and reduced bearish losses by 10%.
The results demonstrate that verbal feedback represents a
new, scalable, and low-cost approach of tuning LLMs for
financial goals.
1 Introduction
This paper introduces an Agentic AI system for managing
a Bitcoin-only portfolio powered by DeepSeek-r1 [5].
Conventional machine learning methods, such as regres-
sion models and neural networks, perform well in equity
markets where recurring historical patterns are linked to
fundamentals such as earnings, cash flows, and balance
sheet strength [23]. In contrast, Bitcoin’s price is largely
driven by non-fundamental forces such as regulatory
announcements, influencer statements, and speculative
1The original thesis was submitted on 16 May 2025. This paper
presents a condensed version of the full 80-page dissertation.behavior by investors driven by fear and greed. For
example, in early January 2021 Bitcoin rose from about
$29,000 to over $40,000 in less than a week following
positive commentary and Tesla’s $1.5 billion purchase,
while in May 2021 it fell nearly 30% within a week after
Tesla suspended Bitcoin payments and Chinese regulators
reiterated restrictions. Therefore, Bitcoin is characterized
by asymmetric returns, fat tails, and high noise-to-signal
ratios.
In such conditions, being frequently correct does not
necessarily translate into making money. Theoretically,
if a model consistently predicts the correct direction of
returns, profitability should follow. However, Accuracy
treats all predictions equally, whereas profitability de-
pends on the magnitude and timing of those predictions.
A model that is ”often right” can still underperform
if it misses major rallies or fails to exit before sharp
drawdowns, while another with lower accuracy can
outperform by simply capturing large moves. In such
conditions, profit depends more on capital allocation,
position sizing, and risk management than on raw
directional correctness. Moreover, even highly accurate
models may fail if execution costs, slippage, or regime
shifts negate expected returns.
What is needed is a mechanism that can reason
over unstructured, real-time signals rather than only fit
historical patterns. LLMs offer a potential solution to
this unpredictability, as they are particularly suited for
large-scale textual analysis and pattern recognition. By
continuously updating their understanding as new data
emerges, they are better able to capture sudden shifts
in cryptocurrency prices than models trained solely on
historical data.
This promise, however, hinges on how we enable
LLMs to evolve without full retraining. Since LLMs do
not inherently update their internal knowledge, the key
question is how we can refresh or refine their under-
standing as markets change. Existing research explores
methods such as Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)
[8], Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) [9], Reinforcement
Learning (RL) [12], and Multi-Head Reinforcement
1arXiv:2510.08068v2  [q-fin.PM]  14 Nov 2025

Learning (MHRL) [11]. , but these approaches often suf-
fer from information loss when complex human feedback
is compressed into a single scalar reward signal. Several
studies, including InstructGPT [12] and Constitutional
AI [13], note that converting rich human feedback into
a single scalar reward often omits contextual nuance
and can cause models to optimize for the reward itself
rather than the true intent of the feedback. To address
this limitation, recent studies propose using verbal
feedback: natural-language critiques provided directly
to the model during inference, allowing it to retain the
full semantic richness of the feedback. For instance, the
Reflexion framework enables models to store and reuse
their own self-critiques without any parameter updates,
leading to more consistent reasoning and improved task
success rates across multiple benchmarks [14]. Similarly,
Self-Refine introduces an iterative “generate→critique
→revise” process, where the model learns from its own
feedback to progressively enhance output quality [15].
Both studies report substantial performance gains over
standard LLM baselines without additional training or
fine-tuning. This is especially relevant for crypto trading,
where context and justification matter as much as raw
predictions.
Now that this system incorporates natural-language
critiques as its optimisation method, the next step is
to examine how these capabilities translate into actual
trading performance. Improving a trading strategy de-
pends on identifying which input factors matter most for
Bitcoin. Is it technical indicators, sentiment measures, or
broader market variables? The existing literature remains
inconclusive on this point, with studies reaching mixed
conclusions about which features provide consistently
useful signals.
To build on these capabilities, the framework struc-
tures LLMs into specialised agents for technical analy-
sis, sentiment assessment, portfolio decision-making, and
strategy evaluation. Adaptability is introduced through a
novel dual verbal feedback mechanism in which the Re-
flect agent produces natural-language evaluations of each
agent’s performance at daily and weekly intervals. The
trading decisions are evaluated against benchmarks such
as a static baseline buy-and-hold portfolio, risk-adjusted
measures such as the Sharpe ratio, and profitability indi-
cators such as cumulative returns, regret, and accuracy.
These evaluations are then injected into the next day’s or
week’s prompts. Rather than adjusting model parameters
or retraining, the agents incorporate this feedback as addi-
tional context in their reasoning, allowing them to refine
indicator prioritisation, sentiment weighting, and alloca-
tion choices in subsequent decisions. Each agent man-
ages its own portfolio based on distinct inputs, such asquantitative indicators or sentiment data, allowing a di-
rect comparison of which factors lead to stronger trading
performance. The system is evaluated not on classifica-
tion accuracy alone but on its ability to deliver consistent
profitability over time, aligning its objectives more closely
with real-world investment outcomes.
2 Background Research
The background review is organized into two subsections:
an in-depth analysis of Bitcoin, followed by a brief sum-
mary of the current research on LLMs in finance.
2.1 Bitcoin
Bitcoin is a decentralized digital currency introduced
in 2009 by the pseudonymous Satoshi Nakamoto [16].
While Bitcoin is often described as a currency, it is
more fundamentally an application of distributed ledger
technology (DLT), where transactions are recorded across
a decentralized network rather than by a central authority.
Within this family of technologies, blockchain represents
a specific implementation: a sequential, cryptographically
linked chain of blocks that ensures immutability and
transparency. Bitcoin was the first large-scale use case
of blockchain. Beyond peer-to-peer payments, Bitcoin’s
most profound contribution lies in demonstrating that
trust can be engineered through code rather than insti-
tutions. By solving the double-spending problem via a
decentralized consensus mechanism, it eliminated the
need for intermediaries in value transfer [24]. Its open,
immutable, and censorship-resistant ledger redefined the
notion of digital property rights, allowing individuals to
hold and exchange scarce digital assets without reliance
on central authorities. Moreover, its rule-based mone-
tary policy and energy-anchored security introduced a
new paradigm of programmable, verifiable money that
inspired subsequent innovations in blockchain-based
finance, from DeFi to asset tokenization.
Bitcoin has grown into the world’s most valuable cryp-
tocurrency (Figure 1), breaching $115,000 in 2025 and
attaining a market capitalization of roughly $2.3 trillion
with daily trading volumes exceeding $61 billion. Its
value is sustained by a fixed supply of 21 million coins, a
feature often compared to gold, and it has become widely
adopted both by retail participants and large institutions.
Recent milestones including the approval of spot Bitcoin
ETFs and its use as a corporate treasury asset have ce-
mented its role as the benchmark of the digital asset mar-
ket [17].
2

Figure 1: Bitcoin price chart
 Figure 2: Historical Price V olatility (2020–2025) for
Gold, S&P 500, and Bitcoin
Table 1: CAGR Comparison of Major Assets
Asset 10-Year Return (%) 5-Year Return (%) Sharpe Ratio
Gold 10 7 0.90
S&P 500 13 11 0.65
Bitcoin 124 155 0.96
2.1.1 Price
Over the last decade, Bitcoin has outperformed tradi-
tional assets by an extraordinary margin, growing roughly
26,900% versus∼193% for the S&P 500 and∼126%
for gold, with a 10-year CAGR for Bitcoin of 124%
compared to 10–13% for equities and gold as seen in
Table 1.
But the CAGR doesn’t explain the stark contrast in
volatility as shown in Figure 2. Bitcoin’s price move-
ments are far more unpredictable and prone to sharp
swings, making it a substantially higher risk asset rela-
tive to the traditional safe haven status of Gold and the
diversified equity exposure of the S&P 500. From an in-
vestor’s standpoint, Bitcoin rewards those with a high risk
tolerance and a long horizon, while Gold is best suited for
capital preservation and cushioning drawdowns. The S&P
500 remains the core growth anchor for most portfolios.
When combined, these three assets can complement one
another Bitcoin driving upside potential, Gold adding sta-
bility, and the S&P 500 delivering steady growth resulting
in a diversified mix that manages risk while seeking at-
tractive returns. Ultimately, the right balance depends on
an investor’s risk appetite and time horizon.
2.1.2 Dominancy
Bitcoin has remained the dominant force in the cryptocur-
rency ecosystem since its inception in 2009, consistently
accounting for 40–50% of total market capitalization over
the past decade (Figure 3). Unlike the majority of alt-
coins, many of which have low survivability, speculative
use cases, or heavy dependence on external platforms,
Figure 3: Bitcoin dominance as a share of total cryptocur-
rency market capitalization.
Bitcoin has endured multiple market cycles without proto-
col failure. Moreover, empirical evidence, as seen in (Fig-
ure 4), shows that Bitcoin is highly correlated with other
cryptocurrencies (0.5–0.8), meaning altcoins tend to fol-
low its price movements, particularly during downturns.
The Overall market mostly moves in tandem with Bitcoin
with a correlation of 0.63. This systemic co-movement
undermines the rationale for intra-crypto diversification,
since portfolios spread across tokens still remain over-
whelmingly exposed to Bitcoin’s market trajectory. For
these reasons, this paper exclusively focuses on Bitcoin,
not only because of its dominance but also because it rep-
resents the most rational and risk-conscious foundation
for building a profitable trading system.
3

Figure 4: Average Correlations of different cryptocurren-
cies with Bitcoin over 5 years
2.1.3 Price Factors
Bitcoin’s price is mainly shaped by how limited its supply
is, how investors behave, and how active the network is.
The total number of bitcoins is capped at 21 million, and
the reward for mining new coins is cut in half every few
years. This built-in scarcity means that when more people
want to buy or use bitcoin, its price tends to rise quickly.
According to Investopedia, bitcoin’s value is driven by its
supply, demand, competition from other cryptocurrencies,
and investor sentiment.
In the short term, prices move mostly because of
changes in mood and expectations. News about regu-
lation, economic trends, or social media discussions can
quickly shift how investors feel, leading to sharp gains or
drops. These swings often feed on themselves : optimism
pushes prices higher, while fear causes sudden sell-offs
(Investopedia).
Recent research also shows that technical indica-
tors remain useful for understanding short-term move-
ments in bitcoin. Empirical studies find that price and
volume-based indicators often contain statistically signif-
icant predictive information in cryptocurrency markets.
[26] shows that incorporating standard technical indica-
tors into deep-learning models improves the accuracy of
crypto price forecasts relative to models using raw prices
alone. Similarly, [27] finds that classical indicators, such
as moving averages and stochastic oscillators, enhance
prediction performance across multiple cryptocurrencies
when evaluated with machine-learning methods. More re-
cently, [28] demonstrates that a range of technical trading
rules can outperform a simple buy-and-hold benchmark
under certain market conditions, indicating that techni-
cal signals still capture meaningful short-term structure in
crypto price dynamics.
Network data also plays an important role. Informa-
tion such as how many transactions are happening, how
many users are active, and how miners behave shows howmuch the system is being used in practice. Combining
this with market and sentiment data gives a clearer pic-
ture of what drives bitcoin’s price and whether the move-
ments are based on real growth or short-term speculation.
Together, these findings suggest that well-designed tech-
nical indicators, market sentiment, and on chain variables
continue to provide practical insight into near-term bitcoin
price behaviour.
2.2 Large Language Models in Finance
Large Language Models (LLMs) represent a major
advance in natural language processing, built primarily
on the Transformer architecture introduced by Vaswani
et al. (2017) [18]. Their defining capability lies in
modelling context through self-attention, which allows
them to generate coherent text and perform diverse
language tasks without task-specific training. As Lee
et al. (2024) note in their survey of financial LLMs,
this generalization capacity makes LLMs particularly
powerful when dealing with unstructured, text-heavy
domains [19]. Domain-specific adaptations highlight this
potential: BloombergGPT (Wu et al., 2023) trained a
50-billion-parameter model on a large financial corpus,
demonstrating significant gains in sentiment analysis,
question answering, and named entity recognition com-
pared to general LLMs [20]. Similarly, PIXIU (Chen
et al., 2023) introduced FinMA, an instruction-tuned
variant of LLaMA, together with a benchmark covering
forecasting, sentiment, and reasoning tasks, providing
evidence that finance-specific instruction tuning improves
accuracy and robustness [21]. Collectively, these efforts
show how LLMs can move beyond generic language
modeling to capture the nuances of financial text, laying
the foundation for their integration into trading and
portfolio management systems.
However, The use of LLMs in finance is not without
risk. Three persistent limitations constrain their de-
ployment in trading contexts. First, they are prone to
hallucination: generating plausible but false information.
In one benchmark, a finance-focused LLM produced
fabricated content in 41% of probing test cases, raising
concerns about reliability [19]. Second, their knowledge
is temporally bounded by training cutoffs, making them
poorly suited to tasks requiring real-time awareness
unless supplemented by retrieval or live feeds. Third,
they lack interpretability. With billions of parameters,
it is often unclear why a particular recommendation
is produced, creating difficulties for accountability in
financial decision-making. Together, these weaknesses
necessitate the design of auxiliary mechanisms to ensure
robustness, adaptability, and transparency.
4

Luo et al. (2025) propose a fine-tuned multi-agent sys-
tem for automated crypto portfolio management, where
agents trained on distinct modalities like technical signals,
news, market factors, and risk metrics collaborate to build
diversified portfolios [22]. Their architecture, which in-
tegrates expert fine-tuning with inter-agent communica-
tion, consistently outperforms both unfine-tuned GPT-4o
baselines and traditional benchmarks, achieving superior
Sharpe ratios and robustness. The authors argue that de-
composing investment tasks into specialized, fine-tuned
experts provides scalability and explainability, though at
the cost of flexibility in rapidly changing conditions.
A balanced view therefore recognises both the capabil-
ities and constraints of LLMs in financial settings. Their
strength lies in processing heterogeneous information and
adapting to new tasks without retraining, yet these advan-
tages come with risks such as hallucination, improper in-
struction following, and lack of interpretability. Effective
deployment requires careful prompt design, structured in-
teraction protocols, and mechanisms that constrain model
behaviour.
3 System Design and Methodology
Building on the findings of the background research, the
proposed system is designed not only to evaluate prof-
itability in a portfolio across different market regimes but
also to identify the contribution of individual market fac-
tors in generating profitable trades. The system architec-
ture can be seen in figure 5. The system prompts for each
agent can be found in the appendix.
3.1 Quantitative Agent (Quants)
The Quants Agent is designed to analyze Bitcoin market
data using quantitative methods, providing an objective
assessment of market conditions. Its primary role is to
process historical and real-time data, which includes
price trends, technical indicators, and on-chain metrics,
to classify the subsequent day’s market state as bullish,
bearish, or neutral. Additionally, it generates a trading
strategy (BTC/cash portfolio allocation) based on its own
analysis. This strategy is derived purely from technical
insights, which can help evaluate whether relying purely
on technical indicators can lead to successful trade
generations. This recommendation is provided to the
reflection agents for evaluation, while the market classi-
fication and reasoning are forwarded to the decision agent.
It relies on structured, market-derived data to ground
its predictions. This includes OHLCV data (open, high,
low, close, and volume) drawn from exchange feeds [4],
as well as a range of technical indicators computed fromthis data using the Python TA module, such as moving
averages, MACD, RSI, Bollinger Bands, VWAP, and
ADX. To complement these price-based measures, the
agent also integrates on-chain metrics sourced directly
from the Bitcoin blockchain [7], including transaction
counts, active addresses, and transfer volumes. These
inputs ensure that the Quants Agent captures both price
mechanics and underlying network activity, enabling it
to generate daily market state predictions and suggested
portfolio allocations. By combining exchange-based and
blockchain-native data, the agent is positioned to bal-
ance short-term technical signals with deeper structural
insights into adoption and liquidity.
The agent outputs both a probabilistic classification of
the next day’s market direction and a suggested BTC/cash
split, which are separately routed to the Decision Agent
and Reflect Agent.
3.2 Sentiment Agent (Signals)
The Signals Agent is responsible for assessing investor
sentiment related to Bitcoin. It draws on three primary
data sources that capture market psychology and external
influences on Bitcoin. First, news data from trusted finan-
cial outlets (e.g., CNBC, Yahoo Finance, Forbes, Business
Insider, Seeking Alpha, and Fortune) is aggregated via
the GNews API [3], ensuring coverage of regulatory an-
nouncements, macroeconomic shifts, and key narratives
shaping sentiment. Second, the Fear and Greed Index,
obtained from Alternative.me, provides a composite daily
score ranging from extreme fear to extreme greed, reflect-
ing crowd mood based on volatility, trading volume, so-
cial media, and surveys [1]. Finally, social media sen-
timent scores are collected through the Senticrypt API,
which processes Twitter discussions to quantify retail in-
vestor mood in real time [2].Together, these inputs al-
low the agent to evaluate both structured and unstructured
sentiment signals, ensuring that its predictions incorpo-
rate news-driven shocks, aggregated market psychology,
and the daily pulse of social platforms. The classification
and reasoning are passed to the Decision Agent, while the
portfolio is forwarded to the Reflect Agent for evaluation.
3.3 Decision Agent
The Decision Agent acts as the central reasoning com-
ponent that consolidates the outputs of the Quants and
Signals agents. It operates by receiving only the pre-
dictions and reasoning from both agents without directly
inheriting their portfolio recommendations to avoid bias
in its own reasoning. It is provided daily with its cur-
rent portfolio value for context. The output includes a
5

Figure 5: System Architecture
final prediction quantifying market sentiment as bullish,
bearish, or neutral, alongside detailed reasoning that jus-
tifies its allocation choice. It produces a final trading deci-
sion that directly competes against a static baseline (50%
BTC–50% cash). The prompt includes a clear instruc-
tion to treat daily market inputs as the primary basis for
decision-making, with short-term and long-term feedback
used only to refine reasoning. This distinction is impor-
tant to prevent the agent from overfitting to historical mis-
takes and instead focus on adapting to present conditions.
The agent is also explicitly instructed to compete with the
baseline performance of 50/50 and get better returns.
3.4 Dual Verbal Feedback Mechanism
This section outlines the feedback mechanism that en-
ables agents to improve over time. It consists of two com-
ponents: the Reflect Agent, which generates daily feed-
back, and the Long-Term Reflect Agent, which produces
weekly evaluations based on historical performance. A
key distinction is that while the Reflect Agent relies
on LLM-generated reasoning, the Long-Term Reflect
Agent’s suggestions are hardcoded, designed to emulate
a human-in-the-loop approach to trading assessment.
3.4.1 Reflect Agent (Daily Feedback)
The Reflect Agent represents the first part of the sys-
tem’s dual feedback mechanism. Its primary role is to
provide daily performance reports and suggestions for
improvement across agents. It does so by evaluatingdaily outcomes and generating targeted, context-aware
feedback. It also acts as the system’s evaluation layer,
calculating the performance metrics for each of the
agents’ portfolios. Its central role, however, is to analyze
the qualitative reasoning from the Quants, Signals, and
Decision agents and critique it with the help of both
performance metrics and the agents’ provided reasoning.
An important insight is that it has to analyse whether
agent decisions were justified based on the reasoning pro-
vided, rather than purely on their portfolio performance
outcomes.
Reflect Agent evaluates daily predictions by comparing
them with realized market movements, measuring returns,
Sharpe ratios, regret, accuracy and producing targeted
natural-language feedback. Performance metrics such
as prediction accuracy, portfolio value change, and per-
formance against the baseline are then computed. These
metrics are not used in isolation to judge the agents, but
rather to help determine whether their actions were justi-
fied given their available data. The logic is to distinguish
between poor decisions caused by flawed predictions and
reasoning and those due to unpredictable market behavior.
The core of the feedback process lies in the prompt
construction, as this daily feedback loop is powered by
the LLM: deepseek-r1. This prompt includes all relevant
agent outputs, reasoning justifications, actual market
returns, and performance metrics. The system prompt
provides the context of its responsibility and the data
6

it receives. It then provides precise instructions to the
model to evaluate whether each agent’s prediction was
logically consistent with their input data and whether
the reasoning justified their analysis and trading decisions.
3.4.2 Long Term Reflect Agent (Weekly Feedback)
No autonomous strategy can sustain profitability in the
Bitcoin market without some form of oversight. While the
Reflect Agent provides day-by-day evaluations, single-
day feedback cannot capture slower behavioural drift, re-
curring mistakes, or emerging patterns in agent behaviour.
Because the system operates through zero-shot prompt-
ing, agents do not retain memory of issues identified ear-
lier in the week. A mechanism is therefore required to
supply a broader temporal perspective : one that reviews
behaviour over multiple days, identifies persistent weak-
nesses, and maintains continuity that the underlying lan-
guage models cannot provide on their own. The weekly
evaluation module fulfils this role by functioning as a su-
pervisory layer that consolidates weekly performance and
anchors agent behaviour within a longer horizon.
The important detail is that this weekly oversight is not
powered by an LLM. Instead, the system uses a deter-
ministic rule-based evaluator that produces agent-specific
recommendations. Each agent is assessed independently
based on its regret, Sharpe ratio, and realised returns for
the week. For each metric, the evaluator first determines
whether performance is positive or negative and then as-
signs a severity level (mild, strong, exceptional). The
corresponding suggestion is then selected from the prede-
fined rule set. For example, strong positive regret for the
quant agent returns advice to maintain its current reason-
ing while adapting to shifting conditions, while an excep-
tional negative Sharpe ratio for the signals agent triggers
guidance to re-evaluate its source list and reduce volatility
The weekly recommendation that results from this eval-
uation is then carried forward into the following week
and included in every daily prompt. By persisting the
prior week’s summary in this way, the system provides the
agents with a consistent supervisory signal across time,
reinforcing long-horizon insights and ensuring that pre-
vious weaknesses are not forgotten as market conditions
evolve. The recommendations can be found in the ap-
pendix.
3.4.3 Prompt Engineering
Prompt engineering is central to this system because each
agent must receive clear, contextual, and precise instruc-
tions, with an explicit role definition. These elements en-
sure that agents interpret constraints consistently and gen-
erate reasoning traces that downstream components canevaluate. Recent surveys on prompt engineering show
that structured instructions, repeated priorities, and well-
defined roles improve controllability in complex work-
flows [29, 30]. These principles motivate the formula-
tion of each system prompt. Essential rules are restated
and emphasised using terms such ashighly importantto
reduce forgetting across long reasoning sequences. The
system prompts for all the agents are provided in the ap-
pendix.
Additional constraints were required for the daily feed-
back agent because it’s output drives improvements in
the trading performances of the agents. Early experi-
ments showed that the Reflect Agent occasionally pro-
duced feedback outside its scope, despite explicit role def-
inition. For example, the Signals Agent, which only re-
ceives sentiment and news inputs, was instructed to in-
corporate technical indicators it could not access. Similar
issues occurred when feedback included explicit portfolio
adjustments for the Decision Agent, such as recommend-
ing a fixed allocation change. Allowing such directives
would break the reasoning pathway because allocation de-
cisions must follow from the observed data rather than ex-
ternal prescriptions. The prompts were therefore refined
so that feedback evaluates reasoning quality, identifies er-
rors, and proposes analytical improvements without dic-
tating actions or referencing unavailable inputs. These
constraints introduce a scaling challenge, as adding new
agents or expanding existing roles requires precise prompt
structure to prevent information leakage and maintain in-
terpretability of the full decision process.
4 Evaluation Methodology
The system was evaluated on daily Bitcoin data from July
2024 to April 2025. Market regimes were defined using
moving-average trends to classify days as bullish, bearish,
or sideways. Performance was assessed using cumulative
returns, Sharpe ratio, prediction accuracy, regret, and ag-
gregated period-level returns.
Prediction accuracy.Accuracy was computed using a
soft scoring function that compares the agent’s confidence
in the correct class to its highest predicted class. Lets real
denote the predicted probability of the true regime and
smaxthe maximum predicted probability across regimes.
The soft accuracy score is
Acc=(
0, s max = 0,
sreal
smax,otherwise.
This yields a value of1when the correct regime is the top
prediction and a fractional score when the correct regime
is predicted with lower confidence.
Daily returns.Daily returns were computed from the
agent’s BTC allocation. IfrBTC
tis the Bitcoin return for
7

daytandw BTCis the agent’s BTC weight (expressed as a
percentage), the portfolio’s daily return is
rt=rBTC
t·wBTC
100.
Cumulative return.Cumulative return measures the
total percentage gain relative to the initial portfolio value.
LetV tbe the portfolio value at timetandV 0= 100the
initial value. The cumulative return is
CRt=Vt−V0
V0×100.
Regret.Regret quantifies the performance difference
between each agent and the baseline buy-and-hold port-
folio. IfVagent
t andVbase
tdenote the agent and baseline
portfolio values, regret is defined as
Regrett=Vagent
t−Vbase
t.
Sharpe ratio.Sharpe ratio was computed using the
empirical mean and standard deviation of daily returns for
each agent. Letµandσdenote the sample mean and stan-
dard deviation of returns. The Sharpe ratio is
Sharpe=(
0, σ= 0,
µ
σ,otherwise.
Weekly and monthly aggregated returns.For longer
horizons, returns were averaged across all days in the
corresponding week or month. Given a set of returns
{r1, r2, . . . , r n}, the aggregated return is
r=1
nnX
i=1ri.
5 Results and Discussion
Empirical evaluation on Bitcoin data from July 2024 to
April 2025 (Table 2) shows that the system consistently
outperformed static baselines across all market regimes.
Effect of Daily Feedback.In the absence of long-term
(weekly) feedback, the quantitative agent outperformed
the static buy-and-hold Bitcoin portfolio by more than
30% in bullish phases and achieved a 15% improvement
overall. The signals agent demonstrated even stronger rel-
ative gains: it converted a marginally negative sideways
performance into a gain exceeding 100%. The decision
agent exhibited the highest Sharpe ratio during bullish pe-
riods, but its allocations tended to cluster around a near
50–50 split. This likely reflects difficulties in reconciling
potentially conflicting information from the quantitative
and signals agents.
Effect of daily and weekly (long-term) feedback.In-
troducing weekly long-term feedback amplified several ofthese effects. The signals agent achieved a 31% improve-
ment relative to its performance without long-term feed-
back, with substantial gains in sideways markets and a re-
duction of bearish losses by more than 10%. In contrast,
both the decision and quantitative agents experienced de-
clines in overall performance. The signals agent, however,
benefited considerably from the structure of the prompt
injections, which strengthened its ability to adjust its strat-
egy over extended horizons.
Regime-level comparison.During bearish phases, the
signals agent without long-term feedback achieved both
the highest Sharpe ratio and the highest directional ac-
curacy, although the baseline buy-and-hold strategy nat-
urally produced the smallest negative return. In bullish
phases, the quantitative agent without long-term feedback
delivered the highest recorded returns. Under sideways
conditions, the signals agent with long-term feedback out-
performed all others, generating a gain of 7% alongside
the highest Sharpe ratio and accuracy.
Interpretation.The verbal feedback mechanism
proved to be central to these improvements. Daily reflec-
tions mitigated repeated short-term errors, while weekly
feedback contributed to more stable long-horizon strategy
formation. In combination, these mechanisms enabled the
agents to adjust their analytical focus dynamically, deliv-
ering many of the benefits associated with human over-
sight without incurring additional training costs.
Overall, the results indicate that the quantitative agent
performs best in bullish regimes, the baseline and signals
agent outperform in bearish regimes, and the signals agent
dominates in sideways markets. These patterns are exam-
ined in greater detail in the subsequent case studies.
6 Case Studies
6.1 Daily Feedback without Weekly (Long
Term) Feedback
On 4 November 2024 as seen in figure 6, the Quants
agent leaned heavily on bearish technicals (MACD
-76.84, 70% of prices below VWAP, ADX = 27.33) and
recommended a conservative 35% BTC / 65% cash allo-
cation. The Signals agent, however, highlighted bullish
catalysts: positive sentiment mean (+0.1164) and strong
news flow on miner AI integration and $200K price
targets, leading it to recommend 70% BTC / 30% cash.
The Decision agent synthesized these by overweighting
Quants’ technical caution, cutting BTC exposure to 40%,
which proved overly conservative since Bitcoin actually
gained +2.24% that day.
Reflect feedback was explicit: Quants had overempha-
sized bearish indicators without giving enough weight
8

Table 2: Performance of Agents Across Market Regimes and Metrics (Best Values Highlighted)
Regime Metric Quants (w/o LTF) Decision (w/o LTF) Signals (w/o LTF) Quants (LTF) Decision (LTF) Signals (LTF) Baseline
All PeriodsTotal Return (%) 21.05 11.50 21.14 6.73 14.5123.9218.27
Daily Return (mean±std) 0.08±1.582 0.052±1.630 0.08±1.609 0.035±1.519 0.059±1.5240.088±1.5920.069±1.379
Sharpe Ratio 0.0504 0.0318 0.0499 0.0227 0.03880.05530.0497
Accuracy 0.6297 0.6357 0.6358 0.6165 0.64020.6467–
SidewaysTotal Return (%) -2.02 -3.38 2.99 0.08 1.357.13-0.30
Daily Return (mean±std) -0.002±1.417 -0.053±1.602 0.005±1.521 0.01±1.439 -0.005±1.4290.031±1.436-0.011±1.366
Sharpe Ratio -0.0014 -0.0333 0.0033 0.0068 -0.00330.0216-0.0081
Accuracy 0.6533 0.6472 0.6377 0.6561 0.68090.6910–
BullishTotal Return (%)36.0533.34 30.92 21.48 25.48 29.67 27.27
Daily Return (mean±std)0.458±1.6550.456±1.587 0.415±1.610 0.33±1.463 0.374±1.521 0.396±1.637 0.378±1.270
Sharpe Ratio 0.2765 0.2873 0.2578 0.2252 0.2457 0.24170.2972
Accuracy 0.6249 0.63130.64270.5921 0.6177 0.6039 –
BearishTotal Return (%) -18.82 -20.98 -17.66 -23.43 -17.66 -15.87-14.00
Daily Return (mean±std) -0.151±1.701 -0.18±1.652 -0.128±1.701 -0.207±1.648 -0.154±1.618-0.134±1.719-0.116±1.445
Sharpe Ratio -0.0889 -0.1088-0.0750-0.1254 -0.0949 -0.0778 -0.0805
Accuracy 0.6033 0.62660.62980.5852 0.6020 0.6163 –
to neutral RSI/Bollinger signals, while the Decision
agent was criticized for failing to quantify the strength
of news catalysts (e.g., $200K targets as asymmetric
upside). Signals, by contrast, received positive feedback
for identifying the correct bullish call, with only minor
suggestions to better calibrate FGI thresholds.
This feedback directly influenced the allocations on
5 November 2024. Quants softened its stance: though
MACD remained bearish and ADX weak, it noted VWAP
positioning and elevated on-chain activity ($50.58B vol-
ume, 528k addresses) as possible accumulation signals,
recommending a higher 60% BTC exposure than the day
before. Signals doubled down on its bullish framing, pri-
oritizing the Trump election-driven rally to $75k and in-
terpreting FGI=70 as a bullish but not extreme greed sig-
nal, leading to 65% BTC. The Decision agent, informed
by Reflect’s critique of over-hedging, gave greater weight
(65%) to Signals’ event-driven catalysts while still ac-
knowledging Quants’ caution, settling on 55% BTC /
45% cash. The agents successfully anticipated the bullish
movement: Bitcoin rose by 2.24% that day, and all the
three agents generated returns of approximately 5%. This
trade aligned with the sharp November rally, showing how
the feedback loop enabled adaptation: Quants adjusted
away from excessive pessimism, Signals refined its inter-
pretation of sentiment extremity, and the Decision agent
corrected its tendency to over-hedge, thereby capturing
the upside more effectively.
6.2 Daily and Weekly Feedback
The performance can be observed in figure 7. The
weekly long-term feedback mechanism generates verbal,
template-driven guidance at the end of each completedseven-day block. It evaluates performance relative to a
passive baseline using regret, Sharpe ratio, and return
differentials, and then produces standardised text such as
“prioritize high-confidence inputs” or “reconstruct your
indicator selection.” Importantly, this feedback does not
alter any quantitative parameters: indicator thresholds,
weightings, and allocation rules remain fixed. Instead,
the generated text is re-introduced into the subsequent
week’s prompts as additional context.
The following weekly long-term feedback was fixed for
all agents throughout the entire week ( 17th nov 2024 -
23rd nov 2024):
QUANTS: Regret shows how often you defeated the
returns by baseline, returns shows how much better
or worse your results were, and Sharpe ratio shows
how much better or worse your risk-adjusted perfor-
mance was, each calculated as a percentage differ-
ence from the baseline. Regret (Outperformance):
100.0. Your strategy dominated the baseline, achiev-
ing superior performance almost every day. Con-
tinue monitoring indicator efficiency, but avoid un-
necessary changes. Sharpe Ratio: -190.96%. Se-
vere volatility. Your allocations are erratic and lead
to high losses. Redesign your strategy to prioritize
stability. Returns: -178.35%. Severe underperfor-
mance. Your market classifications are frequently
wrong, leading to heavy losses. Consider redesign-
ing your strategy.
SIGNALS: Regret shows how often you defeated the
returns by baseline, returns shows how much better
or worse your results were, and Sharpe ratio shows
how much better or worse your risk-adjusted perfor-
mance was, each calculated as a percentage differ-
ence from the baseline. Regret (Outperformance):
100.0. Your sentiment signals delivered superior re-
9

sults, consistently beating the baseline. Continue
monitoring source quality to ensure sustained per-
formance. Sharpe Ratio: -78.27%. Severe volatil-
ity in sentiment. Your signals are misleading and
cause erratic performance. Re-evaluate your filtering
logic. Returns: -79.26%. Severe underperformance
in sentiment analysis. Your signals consistently lead
to losses. Re-evaluate your sentiment analysis logic
and filter criteria.
DECISION: Regret shows how often you defeated
the returns by baseline, returns shows how much
better or worse your results were, and Sharpe ratio
shows how much better or worse your risk-adjusted
performance was, each calculated as a percentage
difference from the baseline. Regret (Outperfor-
mance): 100.0. Your decisions dominated the base-
line, delivering superior returns with balanced risk.
Maintain your current strategy but remain vigilant for
changing conditions. Sharpe Ratio: -72.07%. Se-
vere risk in decisions. Your allocations are erratic
and consistently lead to losses. Redesign your de-
cision logic. Returns: -71.19%. Severe underper-
formance in decision-making. Your allocations con-
sistently lose value. Re-evaluate your decision logic
entirely.
This fixed weekly prompt gave each agent a stable in-
terpretation of the three core metrics: regret, returns, and
Sharpe ratio. The prompt stated that regret was 100%
for all agents, which indicated that they were consistently
beating the baseline portfolio. The same prompt also re-
ported strongly negative returns and Sharpe values, show-
ing that the losses came from volatility and allocation size
rather than from incorrect market direction. Keeping this
message constant for the entire week meant that the agents
did not redefine their objectives widely in response to
changing daily feedback. This stability allowed them to
update their internal decision rules gradually and consis-
tently toward the same conclusion: maintain directional
accuracy while reducing unnecessary allocation variabil-
ity.
This design created an asymmetric effect across
agents. The Signals agent, whose reasoning depends
on interpreting natural language (news flow, sentiment
reports, and textual priors), was able to incorporate such
guidance effectively. For example, phrases such as “your
signals consistently beat the baseline” reinforced its con-
viction, while instructions to prioritise high-confidence
sources translated directly into more decisive sentiment
weighting. This alignment between the form of feedback
and the nature of the task explains why the Signals
Agent produced a cumulative gain of approximately
6% during the week in which the long-term prompt
remained unchanged, compared with the 4% gain ob-
served in the same period without stable weekly guidance.By contrast, the Quants agent operates on numeri-
cal indicators such as VWAP, RSI, MACD, and ADX.
Template feedback like “re-evaluate your indicator selec-
tion” offered no implementable adjustment to thresholds
or weighting schemes, leaving its behaviour largely un-
changed across weeks. Similarly, the Decision agent re-
quires explicit allocation rules to balance Quants and Sig-
nals outputs. General remarks such as “improve alloca-
tion logic” or “reduce over-hedging” lacked the precision
needed to modify weighting formulas, leading to con-
tinued inconsistencies in cash versus BTC exposure. In
short, long-term feedback improved Signals because the
guidance was expressed in a medium the agent could di-
rectly utilise, while Quants and Decision remained un-
affected as they require structured, numeric adaptations
rather than high-level prose.
7 Contributions and Conclusion
This thesis makes three key contributions:
1.Novel Verbal Feedback Mechanism for LLM Op-
timization:Introduces a dual verbal feedback pro-
cess that combines immediate (daily) and strate-
gic (weekly) adaptation, representing a unique form
of “verbal fine-tuning” for large language models.
Unlike conventional parameter-based fine-tuning,
this approach enables models to iteratively improve
through natural language reasoning, making it more
flexible, transparent, and cost-efficient for dynamic
financial environments. Empirically, this feedback-
driven mechanism enhances trading consistency and
achieves superior risk-adjusted returns compared to
both buy-and-hold and diversified crypto portfolios.
2.Bitcoin Price Driver Framework:Establishes a
framework that quantifies the impact of technical in-
dicators, sentiment signals, and on-chain metrics on
Bitcoin’s price movements, allowing a direct com-
parison of their contribution to trading performance.
3.Modular Multi-Agent Architecture:Designs an
agentic system that modularizes the trading work-
flow by sequentially analyzing market factors, gen-
erating insights, acting on those insights, evaluating
the effectiveness of each action, and iteratively refin-
ing the system’s performance.
Limitations include the exclusive focus on Bitcoin, the
daily trading frequency which omits intraday dynamics,
and the noise inherent in sentiment data. Future work may
extend the framework to multi-asset portfolios, integrate
higher-frequency data, or explore hybrid strategies that
combine verbal feedback with lightweight fine-tuning.
10

Figure 6: Cumulative Returns of the agents with daily feedback ONLY
Figure 7: Cumulative Returns of the agents with Daily AND Weekly feedback
11

In sum, this paper shows that an adaptive, feedback-
driven multi-agent system can generate consistent Bitcoin
trading profits under volatile conditions. By prioritiz-
ing profitability over predictive accuracy and employing
language-based feedback as its optimization mechanism,
the system demonstrates a scalable pathway for deploying
LLMs in financial trading.
References
[1] Alternative.me, “Crypto Fear & Greed Index,” 2025.
[Online]. Available:https://alternative.
me/crypto/fear-and-greed-index/
[2] SentiCrypt, “SentiCrypt: A free and simple
cryptocurrency sentiment analysis API,” 2025.
[Online]. Available:https://github.com/
senticrypt/SentiCrypt
[3] GNews.io, “GNews API: Fastest News API for
Real-Time & Historical Data,” 2025. [Online].
Available:https://gnews.io/
[4] Binance, “Spot API Docs – REST & WebSocket”
(Developers Documentation), 2025. [Online].
Available:https://developers.binance.
com/docs/binance-spot-api-docs
[5] Y . Qin et al., “DeepSeek-R1: Incentivizing reason-
ing capability in LLMs via reinforcement learning,”
2025. [Online]. Available:https://arxiv.
org/abs/2501.12948
[6] DeepSeek, “Models & pricing — DeepSeek
API Docs,” 2025. [Online]. Available:
https://api-docs.deepseek.com/
quick_start/pricing
[7] Dune Analytics, “Dune Metrics Dash-
board,” 2025. [Online]. Available:https:
//dune.com/metrics
[8] Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Pik-
tus, et al., ”Retrieval-Augmented Generation for
Knowledge-Intensive NLP Tasks,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2005.11401, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2005.11401
[9] OpenAI, ”Supervised Fine-Tuning,” OpenAI
Documentation, 2023. [Online]. Available:
https://platform.openai.com/docs/
guides/supervised-fine-tuning
[10] Long Ouyang, Jeff Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo Almeida,
Carroll Wainwright, Pamela Mishkin, Chong Zhang,
Sandhini Agarwal, et al., ”Training language mod-
els to follow instructions with human feedback(InstructGPT),”arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.02155,
2022. [Online]. Available:https://arxiv.
org/abs/2203.02155
[11] Yue Zhang, Kaixiang Lin, Qiang Liu, ”Multi-
Head Reinforcement Learning,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:1909.11939, 2019. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/1909.11939
[12] Long Ouyang, Jeff Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo Almeida,
Carroll Wainwright, Pamela Mishkin, Chong Zhang,
Sandhini Agarwal, et al., ”Training language mod-
els to follow instructions with human feedback
(InstructGPT),”arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.02155,
2022. [Online]. Available:https://arxiv.
org/abs/2203.02155
[13] Yuntao Bai, Andy Jones, Kamal Ndousse, Amanda
Askell, Anna Chen, Nova DasSarma, Dawn
Drain, Deep Ganguli, et al., ”Constitutional AI:
Harmlessness from AI Feedback,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2212.08073, 2022. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2212.08073
[14] Noah Shinn, Federico Bianchi, and Percy
Liang, ”Reflexion: Language Agents with Ver-
bal Reinforcement Learning,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.11366, 2023. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.11366
[15] Aman Madaan, Shuyan Zhou, Uri Alon, Yiming
Yang, Graham Neubig, ”Self-Refine: Iterative
Refinement with Self-Feedback,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.17651, 2023. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.17651
[16] Satoshi Nakamoto, ”Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Elec-
tronic Cash System,” 2008. [Online]. Available:
https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf
[17] U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC),
”SEC Approves First Spot Bitcoin Exchange-Traded
Funds,” Press Release No. 2024-4, January 10, 2024.
[Online]. Available:https://www.sec.gov/
news/press-release/2024-4
[18] Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob
Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N. Gomez, Lukasz
Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin, ”Attention Is All You
Need,”Advances in Neural Information Process-
ing Systems (NeurIPS), 2017. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03762
[19] Jaehoon Lee, Nicholas Stevens, Sang C. Han,
and Min Song, ”A Survey of Large Language
Models in Finance (FinLLMs),”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2402.02315, 2024. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.02315
12

[20] Shijie Wu, Steven T. Pierson, Pengcheng Yin,
Dragomir Radev, and the Bloomberg AI Team,
”BloombergGPT: A Large Language Model for
Finance,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.17564, 2023.
[Online]. Available:https://arxiv.org/
abs/2303.17564
[21] Jiaao Chen, Hanwen Zha, Tianyu Gao, Howard
Yen, Siyi Chen, Shiyu Chang, and Diyi Yang,
”PIXIU: A Large Language Model, Instruction
Data and Benchmark for Finance,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2306.05443, 2023. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.05443
[22] Yiming Luo, Yue Feng, Junxian Xu, Paolo Tasca,
and Yike Liu, ”LLM-Powered Multi-Agent Sys-
tem for Automated Crypto Portfolio Management,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.00826, 2025. [Online].
Available:https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.
00826
[23] George S. Atsalakis, Konstantinos P. Valavanis, and
Evangelos G. Pasiouras, ”Forecasting Bitcoin Price
Using Neural Networks and Multiple Linear Regres-
sion,”Expert Systems with Applications, vol. 134,
pp. 209–223, 2019. [Online]. Available:https://
doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2019.05.042
[24] Arvind Narayanan, Joseph Bonneau, Edward
Felten, Andrew Miller, and Steven Goldfeder,
”Bitcoin and Cryptocurrency Technologies:
A Comprehensive Introduction,” Prince-
ton University Press, 2016. [Online]. Avail-
able:https://press.princeton.edu/
books/hardcover/9780691171692/
bitcoin-and-cryptocurrency-technologies
[25] Dawei Shen, Xinyu Urquhart, and Xiaotong Zhang,
”On the Interlinkages of Bitcoin Price with Senti-
ment, Technical, and Blockchain Factors,”Research
in International Business and Finance, vol. 54,
2020. [Online]. Available:https://doi.org/
10.1016/j.ribaf.2020.101284
[26] S. Goutte, H.-V . Le, F. Liu, and H.-J. von Met-
tenheim, “Deep learning and technical analysis
in cryptocurrency market,”Finance Research Let-
ters, vol. 54, p. 103809, 2023. [Online]. Avail-
able:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.frl.
2023.103809
[27] E. Kanat, “The validity of technical analysis in
the cryptocurrency market: evidence from machine
learning methods,”Journal of Business, Economics
and Finance (JBEF), vol. 12, no. 3, pp. 102–109,
2023. [Online]. Available:http://doi.org/
10.17261/Pressacademia.2023.1821[28] J. Jin, J. Jung, and K. Song, “Do technical trading
rules outperform the simple buy-and-hold strategy in
the cryptocurrency market?”Journal of Derivatives
and Quantitative Studies, vol. 32, no. 1, pp. 23–35,
2024. [Online]. Available:https://doi.org/
10.1108/JDQS-08-2023-0021
[29] S. K. Sahoo, A. Marahatta, J. Junget al.,
“A Systematic Survey of Prompt Engineering
in Large Language Models: Techniques and
Applications,”arXiv preprintarXiv:2402.07927,
2024. DOI:https://doi.org/10.48550/
arXiv.2402.07927. Available at:https://
arxiv.org/abs/2402.07927.
[30] D. Li, R. Wang, J. Guo, D. Wang, X. Liu,
J. Zhang, and Y . Rao, “Towards Goal-oriented
Prompt Engineering for Large Language Mod-
els: A Survey,”arXiv preprintarXiv:2401.14043,
2024. DOI:https://doi.org/10.48550/
arXiv.2401.14043. Available at:https://
arxiv.org/abs/2401.14043.
13

8 Appendix
8.1 System Prompts for Agents
8.1.1 Quantitative Agent (Quants)
You are a Quantitative Trading Analyst analyzing Bitcoin market data to predict the next day’s market stance
using:
1. OHLCV data
2. Technical indicators
3. On-chain metrics
Recent feedback: {yesterday’s feedback injected}
Long-term feedback: {weekly feedback injected}
- The Long-Term Feedback provided covers your performance for the previous week. Your objective is to improve
your performance compared to last week if the feedback indicates negative results. Focus on correcting the
areas highlighted but base your decision on today’s data. Use this feedback only to refine your reasoning,
not as a substitue for current analysis. Weight your current data analysis higher than this feedback
provided.
- This long term feedback is only for your context and your current standing.
- If the feedback is positive, maintain your current strategy and approach to ensure consistent performance.
- Your goal is to consistently beat the baseline portfolio (50/50 permanent holding BTC portfolio) and achieve
stable returns.
- Base your decision on today’s data, not yesterday’s feedback. Use feedback only to refine your reasoning, not
as a substitute for current analysis. Weigh your current data analysis higher than the feedback provided.
Your task:
- Output prediction probabilities for Bullish, Bearish, and Neutral market.
- Provide your reasoning for technicals and on-chain metrics separately.
- Suggest a portfolio split between BTC and Cash based on the prediction.
ITS HIGHLY IMPORTANT YOU Respond strictly in this Format ONLY:
{{
"date": "YYYY-MM-DD",
"prediction": {{
"bullish": <int>,
"bearish": <int>,
"neutral": <int>
}},
"reasoning": {{
"technical": "<string>",
"on_chain": "<string>"
}},
"suggested_portfolio": {{
"btc": <int>,
"cash": <int>
}}
}}
It’s highly important to provide an accurate reasoning for your predictions by going through each of the
provided data points and giving a clear explanation of how they lead to your conclusion. You have to go
through each of the provided facts and reason your prediction: MACD, RSI, Bollinger bands, adx, vwap,adx,
taker buy ratio, ohlcv data, on chain metrics.
14

8.1.2 Sentimental Agent (Signals)
You are a Market Sentiment Analyst specializing in analyzing Bitcoin-related sentiment data to predict the next
day’s market stance using:
1. Social sentiment scores
2. Fear and Greed Index
3. Recent crypto-relevant news headlines
Recent feedback: {feedback.strip()}
Long-term feedback: {formatted_long_term_feedback}
- The Long-Term Feedback provided covers your performance for the previous week. Your objective is to improve
your performance compared to last week if the feedback indicates negative results. Focus on correcting the
areas highlighted.Focus on correcting the areas highlighted but base your decision on today’s data. Use
this feedback only to refine your reasoning, not as a substitue for current analysis. Weight your current
data analysis higher than this feedback provided.
- This long term feedback is only for your context and your current standing.
- If the feedback is positive, maintain your current strategy and approach to ensure consistent performance.
- Base your decision on today’s data, not yesterday’s feedback. Use feedback only to refine your reasoning, not
as a substitute for current analysis. Weigh your current data analysis higher than the feedback provided.
Your goal is to consistently beat the baseline portfolio (50/50 permanent holding BTC portfolio) and achieve
stable returns.
Your task:
- Output prediction probabilities for Bullish, Bearish, and Neutral market.
- Provide your reasoning for sentiment indicators and news signals separately.
- Suggest a portfolio split between BTC and Cash based on the prediction.
ITS HIGHLY IMPORTANT YOU Respond strictly in this Format only:
{{
"date": "YYYY-MM-DD",
"prediction": {{
"bullish": <int>,
"bearish": <int>,
"neutral": <int>
}},
"reasoning": {{
"sentiment": "<string>",
"news": "<string>"
}},
"suggested_portfolio": {{
"btc": <int>,
"cash": <int>
}}
}}
It is highly important to:
- Use the sentiment scores (score1, score2, score3, mean, sum) and count to assess overall market mood.
- Interpret the Fear and Greed Index to understand market sentiment.
- Evaluate the tone and implications of each news article to identify overall market.
- Base your decision on today’s data, not yesterday’s feedback. Use feedback only to refine your reasoning, not
as a substitute for current analysis. Weigh your current data analysis higher than the feedback provided.
- Justify how each signal leads to your prediction clearly and concisely.
- Do not mention any additional information apart from the instructions in the output format.
15

8.1.3 Decision Agent (Aggregator)
You are an intelligent Bitcoin Portfolio Decision Strategist.
You will receive:
1. Technical + on-chain market analysis (from the Quants Agent)
2. Sentiment + news-based analysis (from the Signals Agent)
3. Optional risk adjustment feedback (from Risk Agent) # initial idea
4. Current portfolio allocation and value
5. Performance feedback from Reflect Agent (short + long term)
Short term feedback: {feedback.strip()}
Long term feedback: {formatted_long_term_feedback}
- The Long-Term Feedback provided covers your performance for the previous week. Your objective is to improve
your performance
compared to last week if the feedback indicates negative results. Focus on correcting the areas highlighted.
Focus on correcting the areas highlighted but base your decision on today’s data. Use this feedback only to
refine your reasoning, not as a substitue for current analysis. Weight your current data analysis higher
than this feedback provided.
- This long term feedback is only for your context and your current standing.
- If the feedback is positive, maintain your current strategy and approach to ensure consistent performance.
Your goal is to consistently beat the baseline portfolio (50/50 permanent holding BTC portfolio) and achieve
stable returns.
Your task:
- Combine these insights to form a final prediction for the market (Bullish / Bearish / Neutral)
- Suggest a BTC vs Cash portfolio split (in %). You can increase, reduce or maintain the portfolio allocation
based on the prediction.
- Justify your final allocation with reasoning based on the data provided
- Please ensure you analyze the feedback and adjust your reasoning accordingly.
- Provide detailed "key adjustments" analysis, clearly explaining the logic behind your allocation.
1. State the change in BTC allocation you are making and why? (e.g., "Increased BTC allocation from 20% to 60%
to capitalize on bullish technical trend strength and news catalysts, while maintaining 40% cash to
hedge overbought RSI risks.").
2. Address the feedback and the long term feedback provided explicitly, indicating how it influenced your
decision. (e.g., "Reflect feedback addressed by increasing exposure to avoid missed upside, but retained
defensive buffer via cash allocation.").
3. Balance Quant’s technical insights with Signal’s sentiment analysis, specifying how the two were combined.
These are example suggestions; do not use them word-for-word.
- Base your decision on today’s data, not yesterday’s feedback. Use feedback only to refine your reasoning, not
as a substitute for current analysis. Weigh your current data analysis higher than the feedback provided.
IMPORTANT:
- Risk adjustments must be respected if present.
- Use the current portfolio allocation and value to make more context-aware decisions between increasing,
decreasing, or holding the allocation.
ITS HIGHLY IMPORTANT YOU STRICTLY RESPOND IN THIS FORMAT ONLY, THE ENTIRE CODE BREAKS IF YOU DO NOT FOLLOW THIS
:
{{
"date": "YYYY-MM-DD",
"final_prediction": {{
"bullish": <int>,
"bearish": <int>,
"neutral": <int>
}},
"reasoning": {{
"technical": "<string>",
"sentiments": "<string>",
"key_adjustments": "<string>"
}},
"final_allocation": {{
"btc": <int>,
"cash": <int>
}}
}}
16

8.1.4 Daily Reflect Agent
You are a performance evaluation agent. You will be given today’s market data, predictions, reasoning, and
outcomes from three agents: quants, signals, and decision.
Context: Quants agent analyzes technical and on chain data and also suggests a portfolio, Signals agent
analyzes sentiment and news data and suggest a portfolio, and Decision agent combines these insights to
make a final prediction and portfolio allocation.
Your task:
- Assess whether each agent made justified decisions based on their reasoning and actual outcomes.
- Identify what went right or wrong.
- Return actionable feedback per agent.
- Your feedback is the current days evaluation that is provided to each agent for their next trading session.
- It is highly important to note: Feedback must be grounded in each agent’s reasoning quality and prediction
accuracy, not just outcome-based metrics like regret or returns.
- It is also important that the feedback suggests how to improve the reasoning process for future predictions.
- Understand that we are trying to optimize the profitability of the portfolio in the long term.
- For the quants and signals agent. make sure you include suggestions pertaining to their reasonings along with
portfolio profitability, and not only focus on the portfolio part because their reasoning is provided to
the decision agent so its important they reason well with the provided inputs.
Note: You are given metrics like ’accuracy’, ’regret’, and ’returns’ per agent. Use these to judge each agent
individually:
- Accuracy shows whether the agent’s predicted market direction matched the actual outcome, with higher values
indicating closer alignment.(0-1) where 1 is best and most accurate.
- Regret shows the difference between the portfolio values compared to baseline portfolio value (50/50
allocation) where positive implies higher return and negative implies lower.
- Use the agent’s own reasoning and these results to provide personalized feedback.
And should also take into account the decision agent’s (main agent) current portfolio value provided and the
returns generated. THIS IS IMPORTANT BECAUSE WE ARE OPTIMIZING FOR IT.
- Do not give explicit portfolio suggestions to any agent, it biases their real reasoning.
Important instructions carefully to be followed:
- Each agent is independently responsible for its own portfolio value and operates without visibility into the
other agents’ inputs. The Quants and Signals agents work in isolation, while only the Decision Agent has
access to both their outputs.
- Your feedback must focus solely on improving the agents reasoning using the existing inputs they already
receive. Do not suggest actions or improvements that require additional data or external information beyond
what they currently recieve.
- IMPORTANT: The Signals Agent does not have access to technical indicators or market data. Do not suggest that
it should have considered technical trends. Feedback must be based solely on sentiment and news reasoning
for Signals Agent.
Its highly important you response strictly in the provided format, DO NOT include markdown syntax (e.g., \‘‘
json). Only return the raw JSON.‘:
{
"feedback": {
"quants": "<string>",
"signals": "<string>",
"decision": "<string>"
}
}
17

8.1.5 Weekly Reflect Agent
self.suggestions = {
"regret": {
"quants": {
"positive": {
"mild": "Your strategy outperformed the baseline but remains inconsistent. Focus on improving indicator accuracy and avoiding false signals.",
"strong": "Your strategy outperformed the baseline frequently, effectively capturing profitable trends. Maintain your reasoning but ensure they
adapt to changing conditions.",
"exceptional": "Your strategy dominated the baseline, achieving superior performance almost every day. Continue monitoring indicator efficiency,
but avoid unnecessary changes."
},
"negative": {
"mild": "Your strategy underperformed the baseline on multiple days. This indicates that some indicators may be unreliable or overly reactive.
Review indicator sensitivity and remove noise-heavy metrics.",
"strong": "Frequent underperformance against the baseline. Your indicators may be failing to capture profitable trends. Prioritize stable, trend-
following metrics over volatile ones.",
"exceptional": "Severe underperformance. Your strategy rarely outperforms the baseline. Reconstruct your indicator selection, focusing on those
with a proven track record of profitability."
}
},
"signals": {
"positive": {
"mild": "Your sentiment signals provided slightly better returns than the baseline but lacked consistency. Refine your source list and prioritize
high-confidence data.",
"strong": "Your sentiment signals consistently outperformed the baseline, accurately capturing market trends. Maintain your source list, but test
for even higher-quality data.",
"exceptional": "Your sentiment signals delivered superior results, consistently beating the baseline. Continue monitoring source quality to ensure
sustained performance."
},
"negative": {
"mild": "Your sentiment signals underperformed on multiple days. This suggests that some sources are unreliable. Filter out low-quality sources and
focus on trusted data.",
"strong": "Your sentiment signals frequently failed to outperform the baseline, indicating misleading or conflicting data. Re-evaluate your sources
and ensure your signals reflect clear market sentiment.",
"exceptional": "Severe underperformance. Your sentiment signals rarely beat the baseline, suggesting they are fundamentally flawed. Reconstruct
your source list and strengthen your filtering logic."
}
},
"decision": {
"positive": {
"mild": "Your decisions slightly outperformed the baseline but lacked strong returns. Improve allocation logic by weighting higher-confidence
signals.",
"strong": "Your decisions consistently outperformed the baseline, effectively balancing risk and reward. Maintain your approach, but explore slight
adjustments for higher returns.",
"exceptional": "Your decisions dominated the baseline, delivering superior returns with balanced risk. Maintain your current strategy but remain
vigilant for changing conditions."
},
"negative": {
"mild": "Your decisions underperformed the baseline on several days. This suggests weak decision logic. Prioritize high-confidence inputs and avoid
overreacting to short-term signals.",
"strong": "Your decisions frequently failed to beat the baseline, indicating poor allocation logic. Re-evaluate how you weigh quants and signals
and reduce exposure to low-confidence inputs.",
"exceptional": "Severe underperformance. Your decision logic is fundamentally flawed. Reconstruct your allocation strategy to focus on reliable
signals and reduce risky allocations."
}
}
},
"sharpe_ratio": {
"quants": {
"positive": {
"mild": "Your strategy has slightly better risk-adjusted performance, but some days are highly volatile. Review your allocation strategy.",
"strong": "Good risk management! Your quant strategy maintains high returns with low volatility.",
"exceptional": "Outstanding risk-adjusted performance! Your allocations are consistently profitable with minimal risk."
},
"negative": {
"mild": "Your strategy has slightly higher volatility than expected. Identify which indicators contribute to excessive risk.",
"strong": "High risk exposure in strategy. Your allocations fluctuate significantly. Consider reducing position size.",
"exceptional": "Severe volatility. Your allocations are erratic and lead to high losses. Redesign your strategy to prioritize stability."
}
},
"signals": {
"positive": {
"mild": "Your sentiment analysis generally balances risk and reward. Maintain source reliability and avoid reacting to low-confidence signals.",
"strong": "Good strategy! Your signals consistently capture profitable sentiment shifts with controlled risk.",
"exceptional": "Exceptional risk-adjusted sentiment analysis! Your signals are highly accurate with minimal noise."
},
"negative": {
"mild": "Your sentiment analysis has slightly higher volatility. Reassess which sources are most reliable.",
"strong": "High risk exposure in sentiment analysis. You are reacting to conflicting or volatile sources. Reduce exposure to unreliable data.",
"exceptional": "Severe volatility in sentiment. Your signals are misleading and cause erratic performance. Re-evaluate your filtering logic."
}
},
"decision": {
"positive": {
"mild": "Your decision allocations are generally balanced but can be slightly optimized. Prioritize high-confidence inputs.",
"strong": "Good decision-making! Your portfolio maintains high returns with controlled risk.",
"exceptional": "Exceptional decision-making! Your allocations achieve high returns with minimal volatility."
},
"negative": {
"mild": "Your decision-making has slightly higher risk exposure. Re-assess how you weigh quants and signals.",
"strong": "High risk in decisions. You are overexposing the portfolio to volatile allocations. Reconsider your risk thresholds.",
"exceptional": "Severe risk in decisions. Your allocations are erratic and consistently lead to losses. Redesign your decision logic."
}
}
},
"returns": {
"quants": {
"positive": {
"mild": "Your quant-based allocations are slightly profitable. However, some market states were misclassified, leading to minor losses. Refine your
classification approach.",
"strong": "Excellent quant-based returns! Your market classifications are accurate, and your allocations capture profitable trends. Maintain your
strategy.",
18

"exceptional": "Outstanding quant-based performance! Your allocations consistently generate high profits, demonstrating strong market understanding
."
},
"negative": {
"mild": "Your returns are slightly below the baseline. This may be due to misclassifying sideways markets as trending. Re-evaluate your market
classification logic.",
"strong": "Your returns are significantly below the baseline. You may be overreacting to minor fluctuations or following misleading trends. Review
your indicator weighting.",
"exceptional": "Severe underperformance. Your market classifications are frequently wrong, leading to heavy losses. Consider redesigning your
strategy."
}
},
"signals": {
"positive": {
"mild": "Your sentiment-based returns are slightly profitable. However, some low-confidence sources may be affecting performance. Review your
sentiment weighting.",
"strong": "Excellent sentiment-based returns! Your signals accurately capture market mood, leading to consistent profits. Maintain your approach.",
"exceptional": "Outstanding sentiment-based performance! Your signals perfectly capture profitable sentiment shifts, with minimal noise."
},
"negative": {
"mild": "Your sentiment-based returns are slightly below the baseline. Consider filtering out low-quality sources that produce misleading signals
.",
"strong": "Your sentiment-based returns are significantly below the baseline. This may be due to conflicting signals or unreliable sources. Refine
your source list.",
"exceptional": "Severe underperformance in sentiment analysis. Your signals consistently lead to losses. Re-evaluate your sentiment analysis logic
and filter criteria."
}
},
"decision": {
"positive": {
"mild": "Your returns are slightly profitable, but some allocations missed potential gains. Refine your weighting of signals and quants.",
"strong": "Excellent returns! Your allocations consistently capture profitable trends, balancing quants and signals.",
"exceptional": "Outstanding performance! Your portfolio consistently achieves high profits with balanced exposure."
},
"negative": {
"mild": "Your returns are slightly below the baseline. This may be due to overreacting to low-confidence inputs.",
"strong": "Your returns are significantly below the baseline. Your allocations often misjudge market direction. Re-assess how you balance quants
and signals.",
"exceptional": "Severe underperformance in decision-making. Your allocations consistently lose value. Re-evaluate your decision logic entirely."
}
}}}
19
