I'm not going to make you wait till the end of the video. The six best stocks to buy right now according to my calculations for November are Nvidia, Amazon, Alphabet, Eli Lilly, Uber, and Pinterest. In this video, I'll reveal my calculations that identify these as the best stocks to buy, why I like these stocks, and I own five out of these six myself. I'll share with you my performance against the S&P 500 so you could see how I've outperformed the S&P 500 index using my proprietary sixstep investing framework. Let's get right into it. >> I want to thank the Mly Full for sponsoring this video. Visit f.com/parkkev for the 10 best stocks to buy now. >> So I mentioned Alphabet as one of the best six stocks to buy right now. And according to my discounted cash flow valuation calculation, Alphabet stock is worth $312 per share, but you could buy Alphabet stock today for $283. I've had Alphabet stock rated as one of the best six stocks to buy all year long in 2025, and I've owned Alphabet stock in my portfolio since 2020. The reason why Alphabet stock was trading so cheaply to begin 2025 is because of the risks from artificial intelligence and changing consumer behavior. Investors were worried that people were spending more time on large language models and that Alphabet would not be able to monetize that shift in consumer transition. However, Alphabet has effectively dealt with the changes thus far, reporting quarterly growth in its Google search business and incorporating artificial intelligence into the Google search business, as well as developing its own large language model, Google Gemini, which now has over 650 million monthly active users. So far, so good from Alphabet, but those risks remain. Still the risk versus reward I see as being attractive for Alphabet at these current market prices. I calculated an intrinsic value per share for Amazon at $38 per share. I spoke about Amazon as one of the best stocks to buy right now and the current market price is $255 while the intrinsic value per share I calculated is $38 per share. Just this morning alone, I upgraded Amazon stock because of the deal it announced with Open AAI where it will receive roughly $ 38 billion in cash flow in sales to its AWS segment, its most lucrative segment overall. Amazon stock had gotten off the year to a poor start, especially after President Donald Trump announced tariffs around April. Amazon is largely exposed to those terrorists because the vast majority of the products sold on the Amazon platform to US customers are sourced from outside the United States. So that part of its business will undoubtedly get hit with the negative impacts from tariffs. However, Amazon does have a large diversified business. it will be able to send some of those internationally sourced products to regions outside of the United States where it's not exposed to tariffs. Furthermore, its more lucrative segments, including AWS, recently reported accelerating growth, and those segments drive a larger percentage of the company's overall profitability compared to the e-commerce segment. For those reasons, I still like Amazon stock. I recently purchased Amazon stock for my own portfolio and I like the value I got for the shares I purchased and I still think it's an attractive option for long-term investors. Nvidia, the next of the stocks I rated as one of the best stocks to buy. I bought Nvidia stock for my portfolio at around $93 per share. Its current market price is $28 per share. So, I'm very happy with the performance of my Nvidia stock. Now the intrinsic value per share I calculated for Nvidia is $191. The current market price is $28. So I apply a margin of safety and this is well within the margin of safety where I can call Nvidia stock fairly valued. But furthermore, I've been increasing my estimates for Nvidia stock all year long. Seemingly every 3 months when Nvidia reports quarterly results, I revise my targets higher because Nvidia reports better than expected results. The company is locking in orders, increasing capacity, and expanding the services it's offering to its enterprise customers. And what we noticed from big tech earnings last week from Amazon, Microsoft, Alphabet, and Meta Platforms is they all indicated they will be spending tens of billions of dollars more than we initially thought in capital expenditures for 2026 and beyond. The bulk of those investments will go to data centers optimized for AI, where the primary component is Nvidia's GPUs. So, I've become more and more bullish on Nvidia stock throughout 2025. Even though the share price is increasing, I still think it's a great value for long-term investors, including myself. That's why I kept this on my list of the best six stocks to buy right now. The next on my list mentioned is Uber. The ride share and food delivery company is trading at a market price of $9953. I calculated an intrinsic value per share at $130, leaving 30% upside. The company is scheduled to report earnings later this week. And I wouldn't be surprised if the company beats expectations because consumers have shown a willingness to spend on convenience. And Uber provides the ultimate convenience when you need a ride or when you need food delivered to your home and you don't want to leave your house to go pick things up. Uber was trading at a ridiculously cheap price to begin 2025 and I capitalized on that opportunity. I bought shares of Uber stock for my own portfolio and I'm happy with the return on investment I've seen so far. I bought Uber shares at around $70. It's up to around $100. So I've already seen nice gains and I plan on UB holding Uber stock longer term. The reason Uber was trading at such a cheap valuation is because of the risks from driverless car technology and more notably just how effective Tesla has been at marketing its potential in driverless cars. It wasn't the actual risk in driverless car technology, but Tesla's ability to market what it's planning to do over the next few years that really brought Uber's stock price down. Tesla was telling investors that it was going to have this incredible driverless technology service where all of the existing Tesla cars will be able to flip on a switch and be able to rent those cars out into the fleet and generate all of this extra money which would add trillions of dollars in value to Tesla's market capitalization. Needless to say, I thought that was an overpromise from Tesla which is in the habit of overpromising and underdeling. I saw that as a huge opportunity and I capitalized with Uber stock for my own portfolio and I recommended it to my viewers. Uber I actually rated as the best stock to buy in 2025 and it's performed excellently year to date and I expect the company can continue to outperform going forward because it keeps adding new customers increasing the amount of engagement with each customer and it's making strategic investments to undertake and address the risks from driverless car technology which I think is further away than Tesla investors imagine it will be. The next stock I rated as one of the best ones to buy is Eli Liy, which is trading at a market price of $8.96. And the intrinsic value per share I calculated is $1,317. Eli Liy, of course, is gaining investor attention because of its weight loss and diabetes treatment, which is incredibly popular. It's also got the oral pill version of those weight loss treatments uh expected to come out early next year, which is likely to open up a much larger market opportunity. Eli Lily was also trading at a ridiculously cheap valuation because of the current administration in the United States and the way it's attacking healthc care companies and pharmaceutical companies threatening them to lower prices threatening them with other punishments and thereby creating this negative investor sentiment around health care stocks and pharmaceutical stocks. I saw that as an opportunity and I see that as an opportunity as administrations change policy based on what's popular and maybe next year that will not be as popular as it is this year or maybe the next administration would not attack these healthcare and pharmaceutical companies as aggressively as the current administration is attacking them. Needless to say, they have an incredible pipeline of drugs in development and ones that are already in sale. And you can be reasonably confident in their ability to continue innovating because they've been doing this for decades and decades. And last but not least, Pinterest is trading at a market price of $34. The intrinsic value per share I calculated is $87. I bought Pinterest shares from my own portfolio. Pinterest operates in the massive roughly $1 trillion advertising industry and that's expected to continue growing for all of eternity. I don't expect ad spending to decline in any 10-year period. Furthermore, Pinterest is one of the smaller players in the social media industry, and it's still attracting users from the lucrative United States and Canada region, where the average revenue per user is multiple times higher than the average revenue per user from folks in Europe and the rest of the world entirely. Pinterest I expect will continue increasing the number of monthly active users and hopefully will continue growing the number of monthly active users in the United States and Canada which is a more saturated market and I don't expect it will continue growing this in this market for the very long term. Pinterest is trading at a relatively cheap valuation because investor sentiment surrounding the company has turned negative. insiders are selling shares and the investors are concerned about the company's ability to control a lot of the AI slop that's going up on the platform and investors are concerned with competition from meta platforms that's revealed similar services to what Pinterest is offering and so threatens to take market share away from Pinterest. So, now that we looked at my top six stocks to buy in November, I want to share with you how my stock picks have performed in 2025. Now, if you've been following my picks, and I reveal these every month, if you've been following all year, you'll remember that uh I had Oracle, AMD, and DraftKings initially on my list. I took these three off my list. When I took them off, Oracle was up 53.53%. AMD was up 46% and DraftKings was up 29%. At those moments, I removed them from my list and I revealed them in a video on why I removed these three from my list. These six have remained on my list and have been on my list all year. Nvidia, Amazon, Alphabet, Eli Lilly, Uber, and Pinterest. And as I mentioned, Uber I had rated as the best stock to buy. And thankfully so because it's the one out of the six that's up the most this year. Almost 60% year-to-ate returns. Overall, my portfolio of stocks of recommendations is up 36.18% year-to- date as of this recording in 2025 on November 3rd. And the S&P 500 is up 17.4% during the same time. So my portfolio of picks has outperformed the S&P 500 index by more than 2:1 in this time. In fact, to be precise, 2.08 times the performance of the S&P 500 index. Now, I've also been reminding viewers not to take this as an indication that they don't need to do their own due diligence and they can just follow my stock picks because my stock picks have performed so well. That's not the case. You should always conduct your own due diligence and you should always come to your own conclusions. My recommendations and my research can be used as an input to your own due diligence, but it shouldn't be the only thing you look at when you're making decisions. I only aim to provide information to help you make more informed investment decisions. Of course, I'm thrilled about this performance both because you all have benefited from my research and also I've benefited myself. My wealth has increased meaningfully as a result of the performance of the stocks that I own. I as I mentioned I own five out of these six stocks from my own portfolio and they've delivered an excellent return year to date and some of them I've owned for longer than a year and they've performed excellently over the longer term as well. Hey, if you value my process for researching stocks, I think you'll appreciate access to my spreadsheet containing my discounted cash flow valuations which calculate a fair value for over 200 companies. It answers the question, what's a good price to pay for a certain stock? You can get access by joining our channel at the investor tier or above. See the link in the description or click the join button below to learn